Positron emission tomography (PET) is an essential technique in many clinical applications such as tumor detection and brain disorder diagnosis. In order to obtain high-quality PET images, a standard-dose radioactive tracer is needed, which inevitably causes the risk of radiation exposure damage. For reducing the patient's exposure to radiation and maintaining the high quality of PET images, in this paper, we propose a deep learning architecture to estimate the high-quality standard dose PET (SPET) image from the combination of the low-quality low-dose PET (LPET) image and the accompanying Tl-weighted acquisition from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Specifically, we adapt the convolutional neural network (CNN) to account for the two channel inputs of LPET and T1, and directly learn the end-to-end mapping between the inputs and the SPET output. Then, we integrate multiple CNN modules following the auto-context strategy, such that the tentatively estimated SPET of an early CNN can be iteratively refined by subsequent CNNs. Validations on real human brain PET/MRI data show that our proposed method can provide competitive estimation quality of the PET images, compared to the state-of-the-art methods. Meanwhile, our method is highly efficient to test on a new subject, e.g., spending similar to 2 s for estimating an entire SPET image in contrast to 16 min by the state-of-the-art method. The results above demonstrate the potential of our method in real clinical applications. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Auto-Encoders, as one representative deep learning method, has demonstrated to achieve superior performance in many applications. Hence, it is drawing more and more attentions and variants of Auto Encoders have been reported including Contractive Auto-Encoders, Denoising Auto-Encoders, Sparse Auto Encoders and Nonnegativity Constraints Auto-Encoders. Recently, a Discriminative Auto-Encoders is reported to improve the performance by considering the within class and between class information. In this paper, we propose the Large Margin Auto-Encoders (LMAE) to further boost the discriminability by enforcing different class samples to be large marginally distributed in hidden feature space. Particularly, we stack the single-layer LMAE to construct a deep neural network to learn proper features. And finally we put these features into a softmax classifier for classification. Extensive experiments are conducted on the MNIST dataset and the CIFAR-10 dataset for classification respectively. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed LMAE outperforms the traditional Auto-Encoders algorithm. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper is an effort towards developing an optimal learning algorithm to design the bounded robust controller for uncertain nonlinear systems with control constraints using single-network adaptive dynamic programming (ADP). First, the bounded robust control problem is transformed into an optimal control problem of the nominal system by a modified cost function with nonquadratic utility, which is used not only to account for all possible uncertainties, but also to deal with the control constraints. Then based on single-network ADP, an optimal learning algorithm is proposed for the nominal system by a single critic network to approximate the solution of Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation. An additional adjusting term is employed to stabilize the system and relax the requirement for an initial stabilizing control. Besides, uniform ultimate boundedness of the closed-loop system is guaranteed by Lyapunov's direct method during the learning process. Moreover, the equivalence of the approximate optimal solution of optimal control problem and the solution of bounded robust control problem is also shown. Finally, four simulation examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Fine-grained recognition is one of the most difficult topics in visual recognition, which aims at distinguishing confusing categories such as bird species within a genus. The information of part and bounding boxes in fine-grained images is very important for improving the performance. However, in real applications, the part and/or bounding box annotations may not exist. This makes fine-grained recognition a challenging problem. In this paper, we propose a jointly trained Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architecture to solve the fine-grained recognition problem without using part and bounding box information. In this framework, we first detect part candidates by calculating the gradients of feature maps of a trained CNN model w.r.t the input image and then filter out unnecessary ones by fusing two saliency detection methods. Meanwhile, two groups of global object locations are obtained based on the saliency detection methods and a segmentation method. With the filtered part candidates and approximate object locations as inputs, we construct the CNN architecture with local parts and global discrimination (LG-CNN) which consists of two CNN networks with shared weights. The upper stream of LG-CNN is focused on the part information of the input image, the bottom stream of LG-CNN is focused on the global input image. LG-CNN is jointly trained by two stream loss functions to guide the updating of the shared weights. Experiments on three popular fine-grained datasets well validate the effectiveness of our proposed LG-CNN architecture. Applying our LG-CNN architecture to generic object recognition datasets also yields superior performance over the directly fine-tuned CNN architecture with a large margin. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Growth in electricity demand gives a rise to the necessity of cleaner and safer electric supply and shortterm wind speed prediction with high precision is irreplaceable in the efficient management of electric systems. However, it is both a challenging and significant task to achieve the accurate prediction of short-term wind speed. Many models lack stability and ignores the importance of meteorological factors, which leads to poor prediction accuracy. This paper develops a reliable numerical model for verification based on fuzzy inference (prior fuzzy inference network and adaptive network-based fuzzy inference system) and meteorological factors (atmospheric temperature, atmospheric pressure and atmospheric density). The fuzzy neural networks are a favorable scheme in wind speed predictions mainly due to their endogenous capacity of robust modeling of data sets with highly non-linear relationship between inputs and outputs. Three experiments covering the data collected from Hebei are performed to verify the effectiveness of the proposed hybrid model by comparing it with three well-known methods. It is concluded that the hybrid models proposed not only can satisfactorily approximate the actual value but they also can be an effective tool in the planning and dispatching of smart grids. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Effective spatial-temporal representation of motion information is crucial to human action classification. In spite of the attempt of most existing methods capturing spatial-temporal structure and learning motion representations with deep neural networks, such representations are failing to model action at their full temporal extent. To address this problem, this paper proposes a global motion representation by using sequential low-rank tensor decomposition. Specifically, we model an action sequence as a third-order tensor with spatiotemporal structure. Then, by using low-rank tensor decomposition, partial motion of objects in global context were preserved which will be feeding into deep architecture to automatically learning global-term motion features. To simultaneously exploit static spatial features, short-term motion and global-term motion in the video, we describe a multi-stream framework with recurrent convolutional architectures which is end-to-end trainable. Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) is used as our recurrent unit which have fewer parameters than Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM). Extensive experiments were conducted on two challenging dataset: HMDB51 and UCF101. Experimental results show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on the HMDB51 dataset, and is comparable to the state-of-the-art methods on the UCF101 dataset. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, an adaptive tracking control scheme is designed for a class of continuous-time uncertain nonlinear systems based on the approximate solution of the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation. Considering matched uncertainties, the tracking control of the continuous-time uncertain nonlinear system can be transformed to the optimal tracking control of the associated nominal system. By building the nominal error system and modifying its cost function, the solution of the relevant FIJB equation can be contributed to the adaptive tracking control of the continuous-time uncertain nonlinear system. In view of the complexity on solving the HJB equation, its approximate solution is pursued by the policy iteration algorithm under the adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) framework, where a critic neural network is constructed to approximate the optimal cost function, and an action network is used to directly calculate the approximate optimal control law, which constitutes the tracking control law for the original uncertain system together with the steady control law. The weight convergence of the critic network and the stability of the closed-loop system are provided as the theoretical guarantee based on the Lyapunov theory. Two simulation examples are studied to verify the theoretical results and the effectiveness of the proposed tracking control scheme. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Machine-learning techniques have recently been proved to be successful in various domains, especially in emerging commercial applications. As a set of machine-learning techniques, artificial neural networks (ANNs), requiring considerable amount of computation and memory, are one of the most popular algorithms and have been applied in a broad range of applications such as speech recognition, face identification, natural language processing, ect. Conventionally, as a straightforward way, conventional CPUs and GPUs are energy-inefficient due to their excessive effort for flexibility. According to the aforementioned situation, in recent years, many researchers have proposed a number of neural network accelerators to achieve high performance and low power consumption. Thus, the main purpose of this literature is to briefly review recent related works, as well as the DianNao-family accelerators. In summary, this review can serve as a reference for hardware researchers in the area of neural networks.
Design of rectangular concrete-filled steel tubular (CFT) columns has been a big concern owing to their complex constraint mechanism. Generally, most existing methods are based on simplified mechanical model with limited experimental data, which is not reliable under many conditions, e.g., columns using high strength materials. Artificial neural network (ANN) models have shown the effectiveness to solve complex problems in many areas of civil engineering in recent years. In this paper, ANN models were employed to predict the axial bearing capacity of rectangular CFT columns based on the experimental data. 305 experimental data from articles were collected, and 275 experimental samples were chosen to train the ANN models while 30 experimental samples were used for testing. Based on the comparison among different models, artificial neural network model1 (ANN1) and artificial neural network model2 (ANN2) with a 20-neuron hidden layer were chosen as the fit prediction models. ANN1 has five inputs: the length (D) and width (B) of cross section, the thickness of steel (t), the yield strength of steel (f (y)), the cylinder strength of concrete (f'(c)). ANN2 has ten inputs: D, B, t, f (y), f'(c), the length to width ratio (D/B), the length to thickness ratio (D/t), the width to thickness ratio (B/t), restraint coefficient (xi), the steel ratio (alpha). The axial bearing capacity is the output data for both models.The outputs from ANN1 and ANN2 were verified and compared with those from EC4, ACI, GJB4142 and AISC360-10. The results show that the implemented models have good prediction and generalization capacity. Parametric study was conducted using ANN1 and ANN2 which indicates that effect law of basic parameters of columns on the axial bearing capacity of rectangular CFT columns differs from design codes.The results also provide convincing design reference to rectangular CFT columns.
In this paper, we investigate the problem that the conclusion is true on some components of the hypotheses for a geometric statement. In that case, the affine variety associated with the hypotheses is reducible. A polynomial vanishes on some but not all the components of a variety if and only if it is a zero divisor in a quotient ring with respect to the radical ideal defined by the variety. Based on this fact, we present an algorithm to decide if a geometric statement is generally true or generally true on components by the Grobner basis method. This method can also be used in geometric theorem discovery, which can give the complementary conditions such that the geometric statement becomes true or true on components. Some reducible geometric statements are given to illustrate our method.
By employing neural network approximation architecture, the nonlinear discounted optimal regulation is handled under event-driven adaptive critic framework. The main idea lies in adopting an improved learning algorithm, so that the event-driven discounted optimal control law can be derived via training a neural network. The stability guarantee and simulation illustration are also included. It is highlighted that the initial stabilizing control policy is not required during the implementation process with the combined learning rule. Moreover, the closed-loop system is formulated as an impulsive model. Then, the related stability issue is addressed by using the Lyapunov approach. The simulation studies, including an application to a power system, are also conducted to verify the effectiveness of the present design method.
This paper presents a decentralized control approach of harmonic drive (HD) based modular robot manipulator (MRM) using only position measurements. Unlike known methods that rely on joint torque and velocity sensing, this paper addresses the problem of controlling HD based MRM using only position measurements on the motor and link sides of each module. The dynamic model of HD based MRM is formulated by employing a high-fidelity HD model and the velocity of each robot joint is estimated based on a novel nonlinear velocity estimator. With only local information on each module, a decentralized integral sliding mode controller (ISMC) is designed based on variable gain super-twisting algorithm (VGSTA) to compensate the model uncertainty and to reduce the chattering effect of the controller. The asymptotic stability of the closed-loop system is proved using the Lyapunov theory. Finally, experiments are performed for a 3-DOF MRM to verify the advantage of the proposed method.
As a key component of disaster reduction management, disaster emergency relief and reconstruction is an important process. Based on disaster system theory, this study analyzed the Jiangsu tornado from the formation mechanism of disasters, through to the economic losses, loss of life, and social infrastructure losses along the tornado disaster chain. The study then assessed the emergency relief and reconstruction efforts, based on an analytic hierarchy process method. The results were as follows: (1) An unstable weather system was the root cause of the tornado. The potentially hazardous local environment, acting in concert with the terrain and the river network, was able to gather energy from the unstable atmosphere. The wind belt passed through a densely populated district, with vulnerable infrastructure and other hazard-prone elements, which led to an accumulative disaster situation and the triggering of a catastrophe. (2) The tornado was accompanied by a hailstorm, which is an important triggering factor for a tornado catastrophe chain reaction. (3) The evaluation index (EI) of the emergency relief and reconstruction effect for the "6.23" tornado disaster in Yancheng was 91.5. Compared to other relief work in areas affected by disasters of the same magnitude, there was a more successful response than has previously been experienced. The results provide new insights for studies of disaster systems and the recovery measures in response to tornado catastrophe in China.
Layout problem is a kind of NP-Complete problem. It is concerned more and more in recent years and arises in a variety of application fields such as the layout design of spacecraft modules, plant equipment, platforms of marine drilling well, shipping, vehicle and robots. The algorithms based on swarm intelligence are considered powerful tools for solving this kind of problems. While usually swarm intelligence algorithms also have several disadvantages, including premature and slow convergence. Aiming at solving engineering complex layout problems satisfactorily, a new improved swarm-based intelligent optimization algorithm is presented on the basis of parallel genetic algorithms. In proposed approach, chaos initialization and multi-subpopulation evolution strategy based on improved adaptive crossover and mutation are adopted. The proposed interpolating rank-based selection with pressure is adaptive with evolution process. That is to say, it can avoid early premature as well as benefit speeding up convergence of later period effectively. And more importantly, proposed PSO update operators based on different versions PSO are introduced into presented algorithm. It can take full advantage of the outstanding convergence characteristic of particle swarm optimization (PSO) and improve the global performance of the proposed algorithm. An example originated from layout of printed circuit boards (PCB) and plant equipment shows the feasibility and effectiveness of presented algorithm.
In this paper, a neural networks (NNs) enhanced telerobot control system is designed and tested on a Baxter robot. Guaranteed performance of the telerobot control system is achieved at both kinematic and dynamic levels. At kinematic level, automatic collision avoidance is achieved by the control design at the kinematic level exploiting the joint space redundancy, thus the human operator would be able to only concentrate on motion of robot's end-effector without concern on possible collision. A posture restoration scheme is also integrated based on a simulated parallel system to enable the manipulator restore back to the natural posture in the absence of obstacles. At dynamic level, adaptive control using radial basis function NNs is developed to compensate for the effect caused by the internal and external uncertainties, e.g., unknown payload. Both the steady state and the transient performance are guaranteed to satisfy a prescribed performance requirement. Comparative experiments have been performed to test the effectiveness and to demonstrate the guaranteed performance of the proposed methods.
In this paper, we aim at improving the critic learning criterion to cope with the event-based nonlinear H-infinity state feedback control design. First of all, the H-infinity control problem is regarded as a two-player zero-sum game and the adaptive critic mechanism is used to achieve the minimax optimization under event-based environment. Then, based on an improved updating rule, the event-based optimal control law and the time-based worst-case disturbance law are obtained approximately by training a single critic neural network. The initial stabilizing control is no longer required during the implementation process of the new algorithm. Next, the closed-loop system is formulated as an impulsive model and its stability issue is handled by incorporating the improved learning criterion. The infamous Zeno behavior of the present event-based design is also avoided through theoretical analysis on the lower bound of the minimal intersample time. Finally, the applications to an aircraft dynamics and a robot arm plant are carried out to verify the efficient performance of the present novel design method.
Adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) and reinforcement learning are quite relevant to each other when performing intelligent optimization. They are both regarded as promising methods involving important components of evaluation and improvement, at the background of information technology, such as artificial intelligence, big data, and deep learning. Although great progresses have been achieved and surveyed when addressing nonlinear optimal control problems, the research on robustness of ADP-based control strategies under uncertain environment has not been fully summarized. Hence, this survey reviews the recent main results of adaptive-critic-based robust control design of continuous-time nonlinear systems. The ADP-based nonlinear optimal regulation is reviewed, followed by robust stabilization of nonlinear systems with matched uncertainties, guaranteed cost control design of unmatched plants, and decentralized stabilization of interconnected systems. Additionally, further comprehensive discussions are presented, including event-based robust control design, improvement of the critic learning rule, nonlinear H-infinity control design, and several notes on future perspectives. By applying the ADP-based optimal and robust control methods to a practical power system and an overhead crane plant, two typical examples are provided to verify the effectiveness of theoretical results. Overall, this survey is beneficial to promote the development of adaptive critic control methods with robustness guarantee and the construction of higher level intelligent systems.
Classification of college students is a key to conduct further research on students. In this paper, we collect a set of samples and build deep neural network classifiers to recognize them. We also analyze the experiences and behaviors of the college students on Weibo. Firstly, we manually label 1502 student users and 1498 non-college students. Then, the data about their posts are crawled from Weibo to be transformed into input vectors by feature engineering techniques. Finally, classifiers are built based on two deep learning algorithms, including stacked autoencoders and deep belief network. Experimental results show that deep neural networks performs better than other machine learning algorithms and the classification of the college students can achieve a very high accuracy.
Swarm intelligence optimization algorithms are mainstream algorithms for solving complex optimization problems. Among these algorithms, the particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm has the advantages of fast computation speed and few parameters. However, PSO is prone to premature convergence. To solve this problem, we develop a new PSO algorithm (RPSOLF) by combining the characteristics of random learning mechanism and Levy flight. The RPSOLF algorithm increases the diversity of the population by learning from random particles and random walks in Levy flight. On the one hand, we carry out a large number of numerical experiments on benchmark test functions, and compare these results with the PSO algorithm with Levy flight (PSOLF) algorithm and other PSO variants in previous reports. The results show that the optimal solution can be found faster and more efficiently by the RPSOLF algorithm. On the other hand, the RPSOLF algorithm can also be applied to optimize the Lennard-Jones clusters, and the results indicate that the algorithm obtains the optimal structure (2-60 atoms) with an extraordinary high efficiency. In summary, RPSOLF algorithm proposed in our paper is proved to be an extremely effective tool for global optimization. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The triboelectric nanogenerator (TENG) has great potential in the field of self-powered sensor fabrication. Recently, smart electronic devices and movement monitoring sensors have attracted the attention of scientists because of their application in the field of artificial intelligence. In this article, a TENG finger movement monitoring, self-powered sensor has been designed and analysed. Under finger movements, the TENG realizes the contact and separation to convert the mechanical energy into electrical signal. A pulse output current of 7.8 mu A is generated by the bending and straightening motions of the artificial finger. The optimal output power can be realized when the external resistance is approximately 30 M Omega. The random motions of the finger are detected by the system with multiple TENG sensors in series. This type of flexible and self-powered sensor has potential applications in artificial intelligence and robot manufacturing.
Traditional radiomics models mainly rely on explicitly-designed handcrafted features from medical images. This paper aimed to investigate if deep features extracted via transfer learning can generate radiomics signatures for prediction of overall survival (OS) in patients with Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM). This study comprised a discovery data set of 75 patients and an independent validation data set of 37 patients. A total of 1403 handcrafted features and 98304 deep features were extracted from preoperative multi-modality MR images. After feature selection, a six-deep-feature signature was constructed by using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) Cox regression model. A radiomics nomogram was further presented by combining the signature and clinical risk factors such as age and Karnofsky Performance Score. Compared with traditional risk factors, the proposed signature achieved better performance for prediction of OS (C-index = 0.710, 95% CI: 0.588, 0.932) and significant stratification of patients into prognostically distinct groups (P < 0.001, HR = 5.128, 95% CI: 2.029, 12.960). The combined model achieved improved predictive performance (C-index = 0.739). Our study demonstrates that transfer learning-based deep features are able to generate prognostic imaging signature for OS prediction and patient stratification for GBM, indicating the potential of deep imaging feature-based biomarker in preoperative care of GBM patients.
Due to the couplings among joint-relative muscles, it is a challenge to accurately estimate continuous multi-joint movements from multi-channel sEMG signals. Traditional approaches always build a nonlinear regression model, such as artificial neural network, to predict themulti-joint movement variables using sEMG as inputs. However, the redundant sEMG-data are always not distinguished; the prediction errors cannot be evaluated and corrected online as well. In this work, a correlation-based redundancy-segmentation method is proposed to segment the sEMG-vector including redundancy into irredundant and redundant subvectors. Then, a general state-space framework is developed to build the motion model by regarding the irredundant subvector as input and the redundant one as measurement output. With the built state-space motion model, a closed-loop prediction-correction algorithm, i.e., the unscented Kalman filter (UKF), can be employed to estimate the multi-joint angles from sEMG, where the redundant sEMG-data are used to reject model uncertainties. After having fully employed the redundancy, the proposed method can provide accurate and smooth estimation results. Comprehensive experiments are conducted on the multi-joint movements of the upper limb. The maximum RMSE of the estimations obtained by the proposed method is 0.16 +/- 0.03, which is significantly less than 0.25 +/- 0.06 and 0.27 +/- 0.07 (p < 0.05) obtained by common neural networks.
The visible light camera-based long-range surveillance always suffers from the complex atmosphere. When applying some traditional image enhancement methods, the computational effects behave limited because of their poor environment adaptability. To conquer that problem, a blind image quality (IQ) learning-based multiscale Retinex, i.e. the IQ-learning multiscale Retinex, is proposed. First, a series of typical degenerated images are collected. Second, several blind IQ evaluation metrics are computed for the dataset above. They are the image brightness degree, the image region contrast degree, the image edge blur degree, the image colour quality degree, and the image noise degree. Third, a wavelet transform multi-scale Retinex (WT_MSR) is used to carry out the basic image enhancement. A kind of optimal enhancement is implemented by the subjective evaluation and tuning of multiple optimal control parameters (MOCPs) of WT_MSR for these degenerated dataset. Fourth, the back propagation neural network (BPNN) is used to build a connection between the IQ metrics and the MOCPs. Finally, when a new image is captured, this system will compute its IQ metrics and estimate the MOCPs for the WT_MSR by BPNN; then a kind of optimal enhancement can be realised. Many outdoor applications have shown the effectiveness of proposed method.
Understanding and replicating the locomotion principles of fish are fundamental in the development of artificial fishlike robotic systems, termed robotic fish. This paper has two objectives: (1) to review biological clues on biomechanics and hydrodynamic flow control of fish swimming and (2) to summarize design and control methods for efficient and stable swimming in robotic fishes. Our review of state-of-the-art research and future-oriented new directions indicates that fish-inspired biology and engineering interact in mutually beneficial ways. This strong interaction offers an important insight into the design and control of novel fish-inspired robots that addresses the challenge of environmental uncertainty and competing objectives; in addition, it also facilitates refinement of biological knowledge and robotic strategies for effective and efficient swimming.
Bus rapid transit (BRT) has been proved to be an effective tool to improve mass transit services. However, BRT's adaptive operations like management and scheduling under different scenarios are too complicated to implement using traditional methods. The ACP approach, which is based on holism and complex system theory and consists of artificial systems (A), computational experiments (C) and parallel execution (P), offers an efficient new method to cope with these complex systems, including BRT. In this paper, the parallel transportation management and control system for BRT (PTMS-BRT) is presented, which is designed and implemented using the ACP approach. PTMS-BRT integrates such functions as BRT's monitoring, warning, forecasting, incident management, and real-time scheduling, to provide its operations smoother, safer, more efficient, and reliable. It has been piloted successfully in Guangzhou BRT to demonstrate it as another successful example of parallel transportation systems.
The acetylcholine muscarinic M-1 receptor has been implicated in both psychosis and cognition. Post-mortem research has shown reduced muscarinic M-1 receptor density in 25% of chronic patients with schizophrenia. It is unknown whether reduced M-1 receptor density is related to cognitive symptoms of psychosis. We investigated the role of the M-1 receptor in separate cognitive domains in subjects with a psychotic disorder using a muscarinic M-1 antagonist as an acute pharmacological challenge. 33 young subjects with a psychotic disorder and 30 gender, age and IQ matched healthy controls were enrolled. All participants completed a comprehensive cognitive test battery twice: once after placebo and once after oral administration of 4 mg. biperiden (M-1 antagonist). The order of drug administration was counterbalanced. Biperiden significantly negatively influenced both verbal (p<0.001 and p=0.032) and visual learning and memory (p = 0.028) in both groups. A medication x group interaction effect was found for reasoning and problem solving (p=0.005). No main or interaction effects were found for other cognitive domains. These results provide further in-vivo evidence that the M-1 receptor is involved in cognitive functioning, particularly verbal and visual memory processes. Lack of differential effects of biperiden between psychotic subjects and healthy controls may suggest that decreased M-1 receptor density is only present in chronic, older schizophrenia patients. However, it remains possible that differential effects of biperiden would be present in more severe cognitive impaired subjects with psychosis after several doses of biperiden instead of a single administration. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.
Space robots can perform some tasks in harsh environment as assistants of astronauts or substitutions of astronauts. Taking the limited working time and the arduous task of the astronauts in the space station into account, an astronaut assistant robot (AAR-2) applied in the space station is proposed and designed in this paper. The AAR-2 is achieved with some improvements on the basis of AAR-1 which was designed before. It can exploit its position and attitude sensors and control system to free flight or hover in the space cabin. And it also has a definite environmental awareness and artificial intelligence to complete some specified tasks under the control of astronauts or autonomously. In this paper, it mainly analyzes and controls the 6-DOF motion of the AAR-2. Firstly, the system configuration of AAR-2 is specifically described, and the movement principles are analyzed. Secondly, according to the physical model of the AAR-2, the Newton - Euler equation is applied in the preparation of space dynamics model of 6-DOF motion. Then, according to the mathematical model's characteristics which are nonlinear and strong coupling, a dual closed loop position and attitude controller based on fuzzy sliding mode control is proposed and designed. Finally, simulation experiments are appropriate to provide for AAR-2 control system by using Matlab/Simulink. From the simulation results it can be observed that the designed fuzzy sliding mode controller can control the 6-DOF motion of AAR-2 quickly and precisely.
In this note, the coordination of linear discrete-time multi-agent systems over digital networks is investigated with un-measurable states in agents' dynamics. The quantized-observer based communication protocols and Certainty Equivalence principle based control protocols are proposed to characterize the inter-agent communication and the cooperative control in an integrative framework. By investigating the structural and asymptotic properties of the equations of stabilization and estimation errors, which are nonlinearly coupled by the finite-level quantization scheme, some necessary conditions and sufficient conditions are given for the existence of such communication and control protocols to ensure the inter-agent state observation and cooperative stabilization. It is shown that these conditions come down to the simultaneous stabilizability and the detectability of the dynamics of agents and the structure of the communication network.
With the increasing number of the images, how to effectively manage and use these images becomes an urgent problem to be solved. The classification of the images is one of the effective ways to manage and retrieve images. In this paper, we propose a novel large-scale multimedia image data classification algorithm based on deep learning. We firstly select the image characteristics to represent the flag for retrieval, which represents the color, texture and shape characteristics respectively. A feature of color is the most basic image data, mainly including the average brightness, color histogram and dominant color, etc. What the texture refers to is the image data in the anomalous, macroscopic as well as orderly one key character that on partial has. The contour feature extraction of image data needs to rely on the edge detection, edge of the detected edge through the connection or grouping to form a meaningful image event. Secondly, we revise the convolutional neural network model based on the pooling operation optimization, the pooling is in the process of the convolution operation to extract the image characteristics of the different locations to gather statistics. Furthermore, we integrate the parallel and could storage strategy to enhance the efficiency of the proposed methodology. The performance of the algorithm is verified, compared with the other state-of-the-art approaches, the proposed one obtains the better efficiency and accuracy.
In this paper, the synchronization of memristor-based neural networks with time-varying delays via pinning control is investigated. A novel pinning method is introduced to synchronize two memristor-based neural networks which denote drive system and response system, respectively. The dynamics are studied by theories of differential inclusions and nonsmooth analysis. In addition, some sufficient conditions are derived to guarantee asymptotic synchronization and exponential synchronization of memristor-based neural networks via the presented pinning control. Furthermore, some improvements about the proposed control method are also discussed in this paper. Finally, the effectiveness of the obtained results is demonstrated by numerical simulations. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Relation learning is a fundamental problem in many vision tasks. Recently, high-order Boltzmann machine and its variants have shown their great potentials in learning various types of data relation in a range of tasks. But most of these models are learned in an unsupervised way, i.e., without using relation class labels, which are not very discriminative for some challenging tasks, e.g., face verification. In this paper, with the goal to perform supervised relation learning, we introduce relation class labels into conventional high-order multiplicative interactions with pairwise input samples, and propose a conditional high-order Boltzmann Machine (CHBM), which can learn to classify the data relation in a binary classification way. To be able to deal with more complex data relation, we develop two improved variants of CHBM: 1) latent CHBM, which jointly performs relation feature learning and classification, by using a set of latent variables to block the pathway from pairwise input samples to output relation labels and 2) gated CHBM, which untangles factors of variation in data relation, by exploiting a set of latent variables to multiplicatively gate the classification of CHBM. To reduce the large number of model parameters generated by the multiplicative interactions, we approximately factorize high-order parameter tensors into multiple matrices. Then, we develop efficient supervised learning algorithms, by first pretraining the models using joint likelihood to provide good parameter initialization, and then finetuning them using conditional likelihood to enhance the discriminant ability. We apply the proposed models to a series of tasks including invariant recognition, face verification, and action similarity labeling. Experimental results demonstrate that by exploiting supervised relation labels, our models can greatly improve the performance.
Deep learning has attracted a lot of attention and has been applied successfully in many areas such as bioinformatics, imaging processing, game playing and computer security etc. On the other hand, deep learning usually requires a lot of training data which may not be provided by a sole owner. As the volume of data gets huge, it is common for users to store their data in a third-party cloud. Due to the confidentiality of the data, data are usually stored in encrypted form. To apply deep learning to these datasets owned by multiple data owners on cloud, we need to tackle two challenges: (i) the data are encrypted with different keys, all operations including intermediate results must be secure; and (ii) the computational cost and the communication cost of the data owner(s) should be kept minimal. In our work, we propose two schemes to solve the above problems. We first present a basic scheme based on multi-key fully homomorphic encryption (MK-FHE), then we propose an advanced scheme based on a hybrid structure by combining the double decryption mechanism and fully homomorphic encryption (FHE). We also prove that these two multi-key privacy-preserving deep learning schemes over encrypted data are secure. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Learning of prediction error (PE), including reward PE and risk PE, is crucial for updating the prediction in reinforcement learning (RL). Neurobiological and computational models of RL have reported extensive brain activations related to PE. However, the occurrence of PE does not necessarily predict updating the prediction, e.g., in a probability-known event. Therefore, the brain regions specifically engaged in updating the prediction remain unknown. Here, we conducted two functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments, the probability-unknown Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) and the probability-known risk decision task (RDT). Behavioral analyses confirmed that PEs occurred in both tasks but were only used for updating the prediction in the IGT. By comparing PE-related brain activations between the two tasks, we found that the rostral anterior cingulate cortex/ventral medial prefrontal cortex (rACC/vmPFC) and the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) activated only during the IGT and were related to both reward and risk PE. Moreover, the responses in the rACC/vmPFC and the PCC were modulated by uncertainty and were associated with reward prediction-related brain regions. Electric brain stimulation over these regions lowered the performance in the IGT but not in the RDT. Our findings of a distributed neural circuit of PE processing suggest that the rACC/vmPFC and the PCC play a key role in updating the prediction through PE processing during decision making.
Background: Recent empirical findings have suggested that imbalanced neural networks may underlie the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). However, the contribution of the superior temporal gyro (STG) and the caudate nucleus to its pathophysiology remains unclear.
Terrestrial evapotranspiration (ET) for each plant functional type (PFT) is a key variable for linking the energy, water and carbon cycles of the atmosphere, hydrosphere and biosphere. Process-based algorithms have been widely used to estimate global terrestrial ET, yet each ET individual algorithm has exhibited large uncertainties. In this study, the support vector machine (SVM) method was introduced to improve global terrestrial ET estimation by integrating three process-based ET algorithms: MOD16, PT-JPL and SEMI-PM. At 200 FLUXNET flux tower sites, we evaluated the performance of the SVM method and others, including the Bayesian model averaging (BMA) method and the general regression neural networks (GRNNs) method together with three process-based ET algorithms. We found that the SVM method was superior to all other methods we evaluated. The validation results showed that compared with the individual algorithms, the SVM method driven by tower-specific (Modern Era Retrospective Analysis for Research and Applications, MERRA) meteorological data reduced the root mean square error (RMSE) by approximately 0.20 (0.15) mm/day for most forest sites and 0.30 (0.20) mm/day for most crop and grass sites and improved the squared correlation coefficient (R-2) by approximately 0.10 (0.08) (95% confidence) for most flux tower sites. The water balance of basins and the global terrestrial ET calculation analysis also demonstrated that the regional and global estimates of the SVM-merged ET were reliable. The SVM method provides a powerful tool for improving global ET estimation to characterize the long-term spatiotemporal variations of the global terrestrial water budget.
Flexible pressure sensors have attracted increasing research interest because of their potential applications for wearable sensing devices. Herein, a highly sensitive flexible pressure sensor is exhibited based on the elastomeric electrodes and a microarray architecture. Polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) substrate, coated with silver nanowires (AgNWs), is used as the top electrode, while polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) as the dielectric layer. Several transfer processes are applied on seeking facile strategy for the preparation of the bottom electrode via embedding AgNWs into the PDMS film of microarray structure. The flexible pressure sensor integrates the top electrode, dielectric layer, and microarray electrode in a sandwich structure. It is demonstrated that such sensors possess the superiorities of high sensitivity (2.94 kPa(-1)), low detection limit (<3 Pa), short response time (<50 ms), excellent flexibility, and long-term cycle stability. This simple process for preparing such sensors can also be easily scaled up to construct pressure sensor arrays for detecting the intensity and distribution of the loaded pressure. In addition, this flexible pressure sensor exhibits good performance way, such as detecting voice vibrations and air flow. Due to its superior performance, this designed flexible pressure demonstrates promising potential in the application of electronic skins, as well as wearable healthcare monitors.
The unique motion of amoeba with a deformable body has long been an intriguing issue in scientific fields ranging from physics, bionics to mechanics. So far, most of the currently available artificial machines are still hard to achieve the complicated amoeba-like behaviors including stretching pseudopodia. Here through introducing a multi-materials system, we discovered a group of very unusual biomimetic amoeba-like behaviors of self-fueled liquid gallium alloy on the graphite surface immersed in alkaline solution. The underlying mechanisms were discovered to be the surface tension variations across the liquid metal droplet through its simultaneous electrochemical interactions with aluminum and graphite in the NaOH electrolyte. This finding would shed light on the packing and the structural design of future soft robots owning diverse deformation capability. Moreover, this study related the physical transformation of a non-living LM droplet to the life behavior of amoeba in nature, which is inspiring in human's pursuit of advanced biomimetic machine.
Programmable remodelling of cell surfaces enables high-precision regulation of cell behavior. In this work, we developed in vitro constructed DNA-based chemical reaction networks (CRNs) to program on-chip cell adhesion: We found that the RGD-functionalized DNA CRNs are entirely noninvasive when interfaced with the fluidic mosaic membrane of living cells. DNA toehold with different lengths could tunably alter the release kinetics of cells, which shows rapid release in minutes with the use of a 6-base toehold. We further demonstrated the realization of Boolean logic functions by using DNA strand displacement reactions, which include multi-input and sequential cell logic gates (AND, OR, XOR, and AND OR). This study provides a highly generic tool for self organization of biological systems.
As an intermediate step between raw remote sensing data and digital maps, remote sensing data classification has been a challenging and long-standing problem in the remote sensing research community. In this work, an automated and effective supervised classification framework is presented for classifying high-resolution remote sensing data. Specifically, the presented method proceeds in three main stages: feature extraction, classification, and classified result refinement. In the feature extraction stage, both multispectral images and 3D geometry data are used, which utilizes the complementary information from multisource data. In the classification stage, to tackle the problems associated with too many training samples and take full advantage of the information in the large-scale dataset, a random forest (RF) ensemble learning strategy is proposed by combining several RF classifiers together. Finally, an improved fully connected conditional random field (FCCRF) graph model is employed to derive the contextual information to refine the classification results. Experiments on the ISPRS Semantic Labeling Contest dataset show that the presented 3-stage method achieves 86.9% overall accuracy, which is a new state-of-the-art non-CNN (convolutional neural networks)-based classification method.
Fractional vegetation cover (FVC) is an essential land surface parameter for Earth surface process simulations and global change studies. The currently existing FVC products are mostly obtained from low or medium resolution remotely sensed data, while many applications require the fine spatial resolution FVC product. The availability of well-calibrated coverage of Landsat imagery over large areas offers an opportunity for the production of FVC at fine spatial resolution. Therefore, the objective of this study is to develop a general and reliable land surface FVC estimation algorithm for Landsat surface reflectance data under various land surface conditions. Two machine learning methods multivariate adaptive regression splines (MARS) model and back-propagation neural networks (BPNNs) were trained using samples from PROSPECT leaf optical properties model and the scattering by arbitrarily inclined leaves (SAIL) model simulations, which included Landsat reflectance and corresponding FVC values, and evaluated to choose the method which had better performance. Thereafter, the MARS model, which had better performance in the independent validation, was evaluated using ground FVC measurements from two case study areas. The direct validation of the FVC estimated using the proposed algorithm (Heihe: R-2 = 0.8825, RMSE = 0.097; Chengde using Landsat 7 ETM+: R-2 = 0.8571, RMSE = 0.078, Chengde using Landsat 8 OLI: R-2 = 0.8598, RMSE = 0.078) showed the proposed method had good performance. Spatial-temporal assessment of the estimated FVC from Landsat 7 ETM+ and Landsat 8 OLI data confirmed the robustness and consistency of the proposed method. All these results indicated that the proposed algorithm could obtain satisfactory accuracy and had the potential for the production of high-quality FVC estimates from Landsat surface reflectance data.
Hybrid systems are dynamic systems with interacting discrete computation and continuous physical processes. They have become ubiquitous in our daily life, e.g. automotive, aerospace and medical systems, and in particular, many of them are safety-critical. For a safety-critical hybrid system, the physical process evolves continuously with respect to time, and the discrete controller monitors and controls the physical process in a correct way such that the whole system satisfies the given safety requirements. The safety of hybrid systems depends heavily on the control from the controllers. However, in the presence of communication failure, the expected control from the controller will get lost and as a consequence the physical process cannot behave as expected. In this paper, we mainly consider the communication failure caused by the non-engagement of one party in communication action, i.e. the communication itself fails to occur. To address this issue, this paper proposes a formal framework by extending HCSP, a formal modeling language for hybrid systems, for modeling and verifying hybrid systems in the absence of receiving messages due to communication failure. We present two inference systems for verifying the models in the framework by leveraging the expressivity of the assertion languages and the efficiency of proofs, and correspondingly implement two theorem provers in Isabelle/HOL. To illustrate our approach, we consider a case study on train on-board control system originating from Chinese Train Control System, for which the two provers are applied separately and the proof results are compared.
This paper presents a predictive energy management strategy for a parallel hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) based on velocity prediction and reinforcement learning (RL). The design procedure starts with modeling the parallel HEV as a systematic control-oriented model and defining a cost function. Fuzzy encoding and nearest neighbor approaches are proposed to achieve velocity prediction, and a finite-state Markov chain is exploited to learn transition probabilities of power demand. To determine the optimal control behaviors and power distribution between two energy sources, a novel RL-based energy management strategy is introduced. For comparison purposes, the two velocity prediction processes are examined by RL using the same realistic driving cycle. The look-ahead energy management strategy is contrasted with shortsighted and dynamic programming based counterparts, and further validated by hardware-in-the-loop test. The results demonstrate that the RL-optimized control is able to significantly reduce fuel consumption and computational time.
In this paper, we investigate the authentication based on radio channel information in multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) systems and formulate the interactions between a receiver with multiple antennas and a spoofing node as a zero-sum physical (PHY)-layer authentication game. In this game, the receiver chooses the test threshold of the hypothesis test to maximize its Bayesian risk-based utility in the spoofing detection, while the adversary chooses its attack rate, i.e., how often a spoofing signal is sent. We derive the Nash equilibrium (NE) of the static PHY-layer authentication game and present the condition that the NE exists, showing that both the spoofing detection error rates and the spoofing rate decrease with the number of transmit and receive antennas. We propose a PHY-layer spoofing detection algorithm for MIMO systems based on Q-learning, in which the receiver applies the reinforcement learning technique to achieve the optimal test threshold via trials in a dynamic game without knowing the system parameters, such as the channel time variation and spoofing cost. We also use Dyna architecture and prioritized sweeping (Dyna-PS) to improve the spoofing detection in time-variant radio environments. The proposed authentication algorithms are implemented over universal software radio peripherals and evaluated via experiments in an indoor environment. Experimental results show that the Dyna-PS-based spoofing detection algorithm further reduces the spoofing detection error rates and increases the utility of the receiver compared with the Q-learning-based algorithm, and both performances improve with more number of transmit or receive antennas.
Accurate lung nodule segmentation from computed tomography (CT) images is of great importance for image-driven lung cancer analysis. However, the heterogeneity of lung nodules and the presence of similar visual characteristics between nodules and their surroundings make it difficult for robust nodule segmentation. In this study, we propose a data-driven model, termed the Central Focused Convolutional Neural Networks (CF-CNN), to segment lung nodules from heterogeneous CT images. Our approach combines two key insights: 1) the proposed model captures a diverse set of nodule-sensitive features from both 3-D and 2-D CT images simultaneously; 2) when classifying an image voxel, the effects of its neighbor voxels can vary according to their spatial locations. We describe this phenomenon by proposing a novel central pooling layer retaining much information on voxel patch center, followed by a multi-scale patch learning strategy. Moreover, we design a weighted sampling to facilitate the model training, where training samples are selected according to their degree of segmentation difficulty. The proposed method has been extensively evaluated on the public LIDC dataset including 893 nodules and an independent dataset with 74 nodules from Guangdong General Hospital (GDGH). We showed that CF-CNN achieved superior segmentation performance with average dice scores of 82.15% and 80.02% for the two datasets respectively. Moreover, we compared our results with the inter-radiologists consistency on LIDC dataset, showing a difference in average dice score of only 1.98%. (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Background: Snake-like robot is an emerging form of serial-link manipulator with the morphologic design of biological snakes. The redundant robot can be used to assist medical experts in accessing internal organs with minimal or no invasion. Several snake-like robotic designs have been proposed for minimal invasive surgery, however, the few that were developed are yet to be fully explored for clinical procedures. This is due to lack of capability for full-fledged spatial navigation. In rare cases where such snake-like designs are spatially flexible, there exists no inverse kinematics (IK) solution with both precise control and fast response.
Radar emitter classification (REC) is very important in both civil and military fields. It becomes more and more difficult to classify the intercepted radar signals with the increasing complexity of radar signals. An efficient classification method using weighted-xgboost (w-xgboost) model for the complex radar signals is proposed in this study. The xgboost method is widely used by data scientists and performs very well in many machine learning projects. The authors use a large data set which consists of different types of attributes (such as continuous data, categorical data, and discrete data) to train the model. A smooth weight function is introduced to solve the data deviation problem. Experiment results show that the authors' w-xgboost method achieves a better performance than several existing machine learning algorithms on the test set.
With the development of computer network, people could obtain information through the network with stronger impulsion, the dependence of the requirements also becomes higher, this is not only reflected in the increase of information, but to obtain and submit more reflected in real-time and easy to access to information on the pressing needs of the. Therefore, people devoted all aspects from the terminal, network and software platforms to make unremitting efforts. Under this basis, we conduct synthetic research on the data encryption based mobile computing security enhancement model and multi-channel mobile human computer interaction framework in this paper. We firstly introduce the discrete-time Hopfield neural network based data encryption algorithm beyond the analysis on the information flow security and type based model, data security review and attack model under mobile computing environment. We improve learning algorithm of the MD method to avoid the sample mobile and cross interference problems of Hebb rule. Later, we integrate the multi-channel concept to propose the new multi-channel man-machine interaction. In our framework, the 3D interactive technology, speech recognition and synthesis technology, natural language understanding and processing technology, eye tracking technology, posture, input, tactile, force display basic technology are taken into consideration for the synthetic analysis. The result from the experimental simulation proves that our methodology obtains better effectiveness and feasibility from both the angels of data security and interface experience.
Extreme learning machine (ELM) proposed by Huang et al. is a learning algorithm for single-hidden layer feedforward neural networks (SLFNs). ELM has the advantage of fast learning speed and high efficiency, so it brought into public focus. Later someone developed regularized extreme learning machine (RELM) and extreme learning machine with kernel (KELM). But they are the single-hidden layer network structure, so they have deficient in feature extraction. Deep learning (DL) is a multilayer network structure, and it can extract the significant features by learning from a lower layer to a higher layer. As DL mostly uses the gradient descent method, it will spend too much time in the process of adjusting parameters. This paper proposed a novel model of convolutional extreme learning machine with kernel (CKELM) which was based on DL for solving problems-KELM is deficient in feature extraction, and DL spends too much time in the training process. In CKELM model, alternate convolutional layers and subsampling layers add to hidden layer of the original KELM so as to extract features and classify. The convolutional layer and subsampling layer do not use the gradient algorithm to adjust parameters because of some architectures yielded good performance with random weights. Finally, we took experiments on USPS and MNIST database. The accuracy of CKELM is higher than ELM, RELM and KELM, which proved the validity of the optimization model. To make the proposed approach more convincing, we compared with other ELM-based methods and other DL methods and also achieved satisfactory results.
This paper proposes a sliding mode observer (SMO)-based heading control method for the gliding motion of a dolphin-like gliding robot. A pair of flippers are employed to regulate gliding direction via differential actions, rather than actuators commonly used in traditional underwater gliders. The framework of the control algorithm is established based on a derived dynamic model, including an SMO, a backstepping controller, and a solver for action commands of the flippers. Considering gliding velocity is indispensable for heading control but difficult to measure practically, we design the SMO to estimate gliding velocity by data acquired from a depth sensor and an attitude and heading reference system. Afterward, the backstepping methodology is applied to derive the heading control law. Further, a solver is designed to convert the controller's instruction to deflection angles of the flippers, which can simultaneously eliminate coupled but undesired roll and sideslip. Simulation results obtained demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
The development of electronic skin is the key to the realization of artificial intelligence that immediate contacts with humans, as well as biomedical applications. To mimic the tactile sensing properties of natural skin, large ultrathin arrays of pixel high-performance pressure sensors on a flexible and stretchable substrate are required. Here, we demonstrate ultrathin, flexible multimodal sensing capability of e-skin sensor based on polyaniline hollow nanospheres composite films (PANI-HNSCF). Hollow structure endows the thin films with structure-derived elasticity and a low effective elastic modulus of 0.213 MPa. The effective amplification and transformation of various external stimuli to independent electrical signals enables the precise and continuous sensing of pressure and temperature with a high pressure sensitivity of 31.6 kPa(-1) and an accurate temperature resolution of 0.08 degrees C-1. Importantly, the single sensing unit can be easily integrated sensor arrays with excellent sensing performance. Our work provided the technological verify between structure of materials and properties of device and make hollow materials possess promising application in e-skin and health-monitoring elements.
In order to deal with action recognition for large scale video data, this paper presents a MapReduce based parallel algorithm for SASTCNN, a sparse auto-combination spatio-temporal convolutional neural network. We design and implement a parallel matrix multiplication algorithm based on MapReduce. We use the MapReduce programming model to parallelize SASTCNN on a Hadoop platform. In order to take advantage of the computing power of multi-core CPU, the Map and Reduce processes of MapReduce are implemented using a multi-thread technique. A series of experiments on both WEIZMAN and KTH data sets are carried out. Compared with traditional serial algorithms, the feasibility, stability and correctness of the parallel SASTCNN are validated and a speedup in computation is obtained. Experimental results also show that the proposed method could provide more competitive results on the two data sets than other benchmark methods.
Continuum robots present the great dexterity and compliance as dexterous manipulators to accomplish complex positioning tasks in confined anatomy during minimally invasive surgery. Tendon actuation is one of the most popular approaches, which is to insert the tendon to eccentrically go through and interact with the flexible backbone to accomplish compliant bends. However, hysteresis of tip trajectory of tendon actuated dexterous manipulators (TA-DMs) has been observed during the loading and unloading procedure, which is mainly caused by the hindered friction at discrete interactions between the actuation tendon and conduits. This paper aims to propose a general friction model to describe the interactions and friction profile at the multiple discrete contact points for tendon actuated dexterous manipulators under the history-dependent tendon tension. The friction model was integrated into the beam theory to describe the hysteresis and loading history-dependent behavior by solving the profiles of tendon force, normal force, and friction force, as well as the deflection of the dexterous manipulator. Experiments were carried out to validate the effectiveness of the proposed friction model. Results indicate that the friction model can successfully describe the discrete interaction and predict the deflection of dexterous manipulator subject to the different tendon loading histories. Furthermore, the effects of discrete friction to the tendon force propagation and the loading history-dependent behavior are discussed.
Extreme Learning Machine (ELM) is a popular machine learning method which can flexibly simulate the relationships of real-world classification applications. When facing problems (i.e., data sets) with a smaller number of samples (i.e., instances), ELM may often result in the overfitting trouble. In this paper, we propose a new Instance Cloned Extreme Learning Machine (IC-ELM for short) which can handle numerous different classification problems. IC-ELM uses an instance cloning method to balance the input data's distribution and extend the training data set, which alleviates the overfitting issue and enhances the testing classification accuracy. Experiments and comparisons on 20 UCI data sets, and validations on image and text classification applications, demonstrate that IC-ELM is able to achieve superior results compared to the original ELM algorithm and its variants, as well as several other classical machine learning algorithms. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
There have been significant advances in deep learning based single-image super-resolution (SISR) recently. With the advantage of deep neural networks, deep learning based methods can learn the mapping from low-resolution (LR) space to high-resolution (HR) space in an end-to-end manner. However, most of them only use a single model to generate HR result. This brings two drawbacks: (1) the risk of getting stuck in local optima and (2) the limited representational ability of single model when handling various input LR images. To overcome these problems, we novelly suggest a general way through introducing the idea of ensemble into SR task. Furthermore, instead of simple averaging, we propose a back-projection method to determine the weights of different models adaptively. In this paper, we focus on sparse coding network and propose ensemble based sparse coding network (ESCN). Through the combination of multiple models, our ESCN can generate more robust reconstructed results and achieve state-of-the-art performance. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A transformable wheel-track robot with the tail rod whose winding will coordinate the center of gravity of the robot is researched, and a theoretical basis for the stable climbing of the robot is provided. After a general introduction of the research, firstly the mechanical hardware and control hardware composition of the wheel-track robot is provided and the principles of its mechanical structure are illustrated. Secondly, through studying the fundamental constrains during the process of the robot climbing the obstacles, a mathematical model based on classical mechanics method is built to help analyze the dynamic principles of a wheel-track mobile robot climbing stairs. Thirdly, the dynamic stability analysis is carried out by analyzing not only the interaction among forces of track, track edge, and stair step but also the different stabilities of the robot when the track and the stairs have different touch points. Finally, an experiment of the modeling track robot climbing the stairs has convinced the effectiveness of the dynamic theories researched, which will be a beneficial reference for the future mobile robots obstacle climbing studies.
Large-diameter anchors are one of the important connection components in the reinforcement of industrial facilities. In the present study, a finite element (FE) model of large-diameter post-installed anchor system is appropriately established to investigate its pull-out performance and failure modes observed in the prototype experiments. The applicability of the proposed model is discussed through comparison of its results with experimental results (e.g., in terms of the ultimate load, corresponding displacement, and failure modes), and the parametric sensitivity based on the numerical results is studied. The results showed that the pull-out behavior could be well simulated using the proposed model. The progressive failure evolution process of the large-diameter anchor can be revealed by computational load-displacement curves. Thus, the proposed model of a large-diameter post-installed anchor can enable reliable design of anchor systems for industrial reinforcements. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Pressure sensors that can both directly visualize and record applied pressure/stress are essential for e-skin and medical/health monitoring. Here, using a WO3-film electrochromic device (ECD) array (10 x 10 pixels) and a ZnO-nanowire-matrix pressure sensor (ZPS), a pressure visualization and recording (PVR) system with a spatial resolution of 500 mu m is developed. The distribution of external pressures can be recorded through the piezotronic effect from the ZPS and directly expressed by color changes in the ECD. Applying a local pressure can generate piezoelectric polarization charges at the two ends of the ZnO nanowires, which leads to the tuning of the current to be transported through the system and thus the color of the WO3 film. The coloration and bleaching process in the ECD component show good cyclic stability, and over 85% of the color contrast is maintained after 300 cycles. In this PVR system, the applied pressure can be recorded without the assistance of a computer because of the color memory effect of the WO3 material. Such systems are promising for applications in human-electronic interfaces, military applications, and smart robots.
Teleoperation is of great importance in the area of robotics especially when people's presence at the robot working space is unavailable. It provides an alternative to employ human intelligence in the control of the robot remotely. We establish robotic teleoperation systems with a wearable multimodal fusion device. The device is integrated with 18 low-cost inertial and magnetic measurement units, which cover all segments of the arm and hand. The multimodal fusion algorithm based on extended Kalman filter is deduced to determine the orientations and positions of each segment. Then, the robotic teleoperation systems using the proposed device are designed. The novel teleoperation schemes can be applied for 11DOF robotic arm-hand system and 10DOF robotic arm-hand system, in which the operator's fingers are used for robotic hand teleoperation, and the arms with palm are used for robotic arm teleoperation. Meanwhile, the proposed robotic teleoperation systems are fully realized with a user-friendly human-machine interaction interface. Finally, a series of experiments are conducted with our robotic teleoperation system successfully.
In this paper, we investigate the neural-network-based adaptive guaranteed cost control for continuous time affine nonlinear systems with dynamical uncertainties. Through theoretical analysis, the guaranteed cost control problem is transformed into designing an optimal controller of the associated nominal system with a newly defined cost function. The approach of adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) is involved to implement the guaranteed cost control strategy with the neural network approximation. The stability of the closed-loop system with the guaranteed cost control law, the convergence of the critic network weights and the approximate boundary of the guaranteed cost control law are all analyzed. Two simulation examples have been conducted and all simulation results have indicated the good performance of the developed guaranteed cost control strategy. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Extraction of structural lines from pattern-rich manga is a crucial step for migrating legacy manga to digital domain. Unfortunately, it is very challenging to distinguish structural lines from arbitrary, highly-structured, and black-and-white screen patterns. In this paper, we present a novel data driven approach to identify structural lines out of pattern-rich manga, with no assumption on the patterns. The method is based on convolutional neural networks. To suit our purpose, we propose a deep network model to handle the large variety of screen patterns and raise output accuracy. We also develop an efficient and effective way to generate a rich set of training data pairs. Our method suppresses arbitrary screen patterns no matter whether these patterns are regular, irregular, tone-varying, or even pictorial, and regardless of their scales. It outputs clear and smooth structural lines even if these lines are contaminated by and immersed in complex patterns. We have evaluated our method on a large number of mangas of various drawing styles. Our method substantially outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of visual quality. We also demonstrate its potential in various manga applications, including manga colorization, manga retargeting, and 2.5D manga generation.
Leaf area index (LAI) is an important vegetation parameter that characterizes leaf density and canopy structure, and plays an important role in global change study, land surface process simulation and agriculture monitoring. The wide field view (WFV) sensor on board the Chinese GF-1 satellite can acquire multi-spectral data with decametric spatial resolution, high temporal resolution and wide coverage, which are valuable data sources for dynamic monitoring of LAI. Therefore, an automatic LAI estimation algorithm for GF-1 WFV data was developed based on the radiative transfer model and LAI estimation accuracy of the developed algorithm was assessed in an agriculture region with maize as the dominated crop type. The radiative transfer model was firstly used to simulate the physical relationship between canopy reflectance and LAI under different soil and vegetation conditions, and then the training sample dataset was formed. Then, neural networks (NNs) were used to develop the LAI estimation algorithm using the training sample dataset. Green, red and near-infrared band reflectances of GF-1 WFV data were used as the input variables of the NNs, as well as the corresponding LAI was the output variable. The validation results using field LAI measurements in the agriculture region indicated that the LAI estimation algorithm could achieve satisfactory results (such as R-2 = 0.818, RMSE = 0.50). In addition, the developed LAI estimation algorithm had potential to operationally generate LAI datasets using GF-1 WFV land surface reflectance data, which could provide high spatial and temporal resolution LAI data for agriculture, ecosystem and environmental management researches.
Trajectory pattern mining is becoming increasingly popular because of the development of ubiquitous computing technology. Trajectory data contain abundant semantic and geographic information that reflects people's movement patterns, i.e., who is performing a certain type of activity when and where. However, the variety and complexity of people's movement activity and the large size of trajectory datasets make it difficult to mine valuable trajectory patterns. Moreover, most existing trajectory similarity measurements only consider a portion of the information contained in trajectory data. The patterns obtained cannot be interpreted well in terms of both semantic meaning and geographic distributions. As a result, these patterns cannot be used accurately for recommendation systems or other applications. This paper introduces a novel concept of the semantic-geographic pattern that considers both semantic and geographic meaning simultaneously. A flexible density-based clustering algorithm with a new trajectory similarity measurement called semantic intensity is used to mine these semantic-geographic patterns. Comparative experiments on check-in data from the Sina Weibo service demonstrate that semantic intensity can effectively measure both semantic and geographic similarities among trajectories. The resulting patterns are more accurate and easy to interpret.
A rapid degradation of wet adhesion is the key factor controlling coating lifetime, for the organic coatings under marine hydrostatic pressure. The mathematical models of wet adhesion have been studied by Grey System Theory (GST). Grey models (GM) (1, 1) of epoxy varnish (EV) coating/steel and epoxy glass flake (EGF) coating/steel have been established, and a lifetime prediction formula has been proposed on the basis of these models. The precision assessments indicate that the established models are accurate, and the prediction formula is capable of making precise lifetime forecasting of the coatings.
In the location-based service (LBS) privacy protection, the most common and classic solution is K-anonymity, however, existing schemes rarely consider the issue that whether other mobile users are willing to provide assistance to the requesters to form the K-anonymity set, thus leading to their poor practicability. In this paper, an incentive mechanism based on credit is introduced into the distributed K-anonymity, and only providing assistance to the others, a user can gain and accumulate his credit. Based on the fuzzy logic in the soft computing, a probability threshold is introduced to reflect a user's reputation, and only when a user's reputation reaches this threshold, can he get the assistance from other neighbors. Security analysis shows that our scheme is secure with respect to various typical attacks. And because of not relying on a trusted third party, our scheme can avoid the security issue resulting from its breach. Extensive experiments indicate that the time to form the anonymity set is short and it increases slowly as the value of K increases. Finally, the additional traffic introduced by this scheme is very limited.
Quantized neural networks (QNNs), which use low bitwidth numbers for representing parameters and performing computations, have been proposed to reduce the computation complexity, storage size and memory usage. In QNNs, parameters and activations are uniformly quantized, such that the multiplications and additions can be accelerated by bitwise operations. However, distributions of parameters in neural networks are often imbalanced, such that the uniform quantization determined from extremal values may underutilize available bitwidth. In this paper, we propose a novel quantization method that can ensure the balance of distributions of quantized values. Our method first recursively partitions the parameters by percentiles into balanced bins, and then applies uniform quantization. We also introduce computationally cheaper approximations of percentiles to reduce the computation overhead introduced. Overall, our method improves the prediction accuracies of QNNs without introducing extra computation during inference, has negligible impact on training speed, and is applicable to both convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks. Experiments on standard datasets including ImageNet and Penn Treebank confirm the effectiveness of our method. On ImageNet, the top-5 error rate of our 4-bit quantized GoogLeNet model is 12.7%, which is superior to the state-of-the-arts of QNNs.
Semantic segmentation has recently witnessed rapid progress, but existing methods only focus on identifying objects or instances. In this work, we aim to address the task of semantic understanding of scenes with deep learning. Different from many existing methods, our method focuses on putting forward some techniques to improve the existing algorithms, rather than to propose a whole new framework. Objectness enhancement is the first effective technique. It exploits the detection module to produce object region proposals with category probability, and these regions are used to weight the parsing feature map directly. "Extra background" category, as a specific category, is often attached to the category space for improving parsing result in semantic and instance segmentation tasks. In scene parsing tasks, extra background category is still beneficial to improve the model in training. However, some pixels may be assigned into this nonexistent category in inference. Black-hole filling technique is proposed to avoid the incorrect classification. For verifying these two techniques, we integrate them into a parsing framework for generating parsing result. We call this unified framework as Objectness Enhancement Network (OENet). Compared with previous work, our proposed OENet system effectively improves the performance over the original model on SceneParse150 scene parsing dataset, reaching 38.4 mIoU (mean intersection-over-union) and 77.9% accuracy in the validation set without assembling multiple models. Its effectiveness is also verified on the Cityscapes dataset.
The 2015 Mw7.8 Gorkha earthquake triggered thousands of landslides of various types scattered over a large area. In the current study, we utilized pre- and post-earthquake high-resolution satellite imagery to compile two landslide inventories before and after earthquake and prepared three landslide susceptibility maps within 404 km(2) area using frequency ratio (FR) model. From the study, we could map about 519 landslides including 178 pre-earthquake slides and 341 coseismic slides were identified. This study investigated the relationship between landslide occurrence and landslide causative factors, i.e., slope, aspect, altitude, plan curvature, lithology, land use, distance from streams, distance from road, distance from faults, and peak ground acceleration. The analysis showed that the majority of landslides both pre-earthquake and coseismic occurred at slope >30 degrees, preferably in S, SE, and SW directions and within altitude ranging from 1000 to 1500 m and 1500 to 3500 m. Scatter plots between number of landslides per km(-2) (LN) and percentage of landslide area (LA) and causative factors indicate that slope is the most influencing factor followed by lithology and PGA for the landslide formation. Higher landslide susceptibility before earthquake is observed along the road and rivers, whereas landslides after earthquake are triggered at steeper slopes and at higher altitudes. Combined susceptibility map indicates the effect of topography, geology, and land cover in the triggering of landslides in the entire basin. The resultant landslide susceptibility maps are verified through AUC showing success rates of 78, 81, and 77%, respectively. These susceptibility maps are helpful for engineers and planners for future development work in the landslide prone area.
Convolutional neural networks have achieved great success in many computer vision tasks. However, it is still challenging for action recognition in videos due to the intrinsically complicated space-time correlation and computational difficult of videos. Existing methods usually neglect the fusion of long term spatio-temporal information. In this paper, we propose a novel hybrid spatio-temporal convolutional network for action recognition. Specifically, we integrate three different type of streams into the network: (1) the image stream utilizes still images to learn the appearance information; (2) the optical stream captures the motion information from optical flow frames; (3) the dynamic image stream explores the appearance information and motion information simultaneously from generated dynamic images. Finally, a weighted fusion strategy at the softmax layer is utilized to make the class decision. With the help of these three streams, we can take full advantage of the spatio-temporal information of the videos. Extensive experiments on two popular human action recognition datasets demonstrate the superiority of our proposed method when compared with several state-of-the-art approaches.
Robot calibration has been demonstrated to be a useful method to decrease the absolute positioning errors of a robot. Compared to the traditional calibration methods which require expensive external measurement devices, this paper proposes a stereo vision based self-calibration procedure which only needs a stereo camera mounted to a fixed location and a planar marker attached to the robot end-effector. The procedure consists of three consecutive steps: the automatic generation of target configurations and trajectories based on the nominal geometric models of the robot; a camera and obstacles, marker poses estimated by the two stage estimation algorithm; and the kinematic parameters identification based on a local product of exponential (local POE) formulized error model. The advantage of this self-calibration method is that the whole robot camera system can be calibrated without any manual intervention, which enables robot calibration to be completely online and suitable for the fast programming of the robot and computer vision combined work cell. A set of simulations and experiments on a UR5 robot demonstrate the convenience, efficiency and robustness of the proposed calibration procedure. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Directed networks such as gene regulation networks and neural networks are connected by arcs (directed links). The nodes in a directed network are often strongly interwound by a huge number of directed cycles, which leads to complex information-processing dynamics in the network and makes it highly challenging to infer the intrinsic direction of information flow. In this theoretical paper, based on the principle of minimum-feedback, we explore the node hierarchy of directed networks and distinguish feedforward and feedback arcs. Nearly optimal node hierarchy solutions, which minimize the number of feedback arcs from lower-level nodes to higher-level nodes, are constructed by belief-propagation and simulated-annealing methods. For real-world networks, we quantify the extent of feedback scarcity by comparison with the ensemble of direction-randomized networks and identify the most important feedback arcs. Our methods are also useful for visualizing directed networks.
The role of environmental variables in controlling transpiration (Es) is an important, but not well understood, aspect of transpiration modeling in arid desert regions. Taking three dominant desert shrubs, Haloxylon ammodendron, Nitraria tangutorum, and Calligonum mongolicum, as examples, we aim to evaluate the applicability of three transpiration models, i.e. the modified Jarvis-Stewart model (MJS), the simplified process-based model (BTA), and the artificial neural network model (ANN) at different temporal scales. The stem sap flow of each species was monitored using the stem heat balance approach over both the 2014 and 2015 main growing seasons. Concurrent environmental variables were also measured with an automatic weather station. The ANN model generally produced better simulations of E, than the MJS and BTA models at both hourly and daily scales, indicating its advantage in solving complicated, nonlinear problems between transpiration rate and environmental driving forces. The solar radiation and vapor pressure deficit were crucial variables in modeling E-c for all three species. The performance of the MJS and ANN models was significantly improved by incorporating root-zone soil moisture. We also found that the difference between hourly and daily fitted parameter values was considerable for the MJS and BTA models. Therefore, these models need to be recalibrated when applied at different temporal scales. This study provides insights regarding the application and performance of current transpiration models in arid desert regions, and thus provides a deeper understanding of eco-hydrological processes and sustainable ecosystem management at the study site. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, the H-infinity optimal control problem for a class of continuous-time nonlinear systems is investigated using event-triggered method. First, the H-infinity optimal control problem is formulated as a two-player zero-sum (ZS) differential game. Then, an adaptive triggering condition is derived for the ZS game with an event-triggered control policy and a time-triggered disturbance policy. The event-triggered controller is updated only when the triggering condition is not satisfied. Therefore, the communication between the plant and the controller is reduced. Furthermore, a positive lower bound on the minimal intersample time is provided to avoid Zeno behavior. For implementation purpose, the event-triggered concurrent learning algorithm is proposed, where only one critic neural network (NN) is used to approximate the value function, the control policy and the disturbance policy. During the learning process, the traditional persistence of excitation condition is relaxed using the recorded data and instantaneous data together. Meanwhile, the stability of closed-loop system and the uniform ultimate boundedness (UUB) of the critic NN's parameters are proved by using Lyapunov technique. Finally, simulation results verify the feasibility to the ZS game and the corresponding H-infinity control problem.
In this paper, a sensory-motor fusion-based manipulation and grasping control strategy has been developed for a robotic hand-eye system. The proposed hierarchical control architecture has three modules: 1) vision servoing; 2) surface electromyography (sEMG)-based movement recognition; and 3) hybrid force and motion optimization for manipulation and grasping. A stereo camera is used to obtain the 3-D point cloud of a target object and provides the desired operational position. The AdaBoost-based motion recognition is employed to discriminate different movements based on sEMG of human upper limbs. The operational space motion planning for bionic arm and force planning for multifingered robotic hand can be both transformed as a convex optimization problem with various constraints. A neural dynamics optimization solution is proposed and implemented online. The proposed formulation can achieve a substantial reduction of computational load. The actual implementation includes a bionic arm with dextrous hand, high-speed active vision, and an EMG sensors. A series of manipulation tasks consisting of tracking/recogniting/grasping of an object are implemented, and experiment results exhibit the responsiveness and flexibility of the proposed sensory motion fusion approach.
In this paper, we present error bound analysis of the Q-function for the action-dependent adaptive dynamic programming for solving discounted optimal control problems of unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems. The convergence of Q-functions derived by a policy iteration algorithm under ideal conditions is given. Considering the approximated errors of the Q-function and control policy in the policy evaluation step and policy improvement step, we establish error bounds of approximate Q-functions in each iteration. With the given boundedness conditions, the approximate Q-function will converge to a finite neighborhood of the optimal Q-function. To implement the presented algorithm, two three-layer neural networks are employed to approximate the Q-function and the control policy, respectively. Finally, a simulation example is utilized to verify the validity of the presented algorithm.
The Gough-Stewart platform has been successfully used in a wide variety of fields ranging from medical to automotive applications. This paper proposes a 6-RRRPRR parallel manipulator with orthogonal non-intersecting RR-joint configurations and ball screw actuators without guide mechanisms. A novel methodology is developed to define the dependent RR-joint variables and a numerical algorithm is employed to calculate the joint variables. The parasitic motion caused by the helical motion of the ball screw can be expressed and solved with vector method. The inverse kinematics of this manipulator can be solved. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed approach, simulations are performed with software package ADAMS. A prototype of this manipulator is manufactured. Its resolution, accuracy, and repeatability are measured. It is shown that the presented method is effective for this parallel manipulator.
Over the last decades, the cooperative design of complex networked systems has received an increasing attention in real-world engineering practices. Traditionally, each node in the network is assumed to obtain the same signal. However, each agent often possesses different measurement due to the observability or configuration of the systems. To solve the stabilization problem in this case, we aim to establish a unified framework for the cooperative control of complex network with distributed observers. In detail, different from the traditional centralized design, this paper initiates a cooperative approach by only using the local information of the networked systems. In allusion to the three kinds of representative networks, this paper establishes some sufficient or necessary conditions for the existence of network parameters that guarantee the stabilization of the LTI plants. Moreover, some corresponding algorithms are developed to find the suitable parameters of networked observers. Last but not least, numerical simulations are also provided to verify the above theoretical results.
Aerial scene classification, which aims to automatically label an aerial image with a specific semantic category, is a fundamental problem for understanding high-resolution remote sensing imagery. In recent years, it has become an active task in the remote sensing area, and numerous algorithms have been proposed for this task, including many machine learning and data-driven approaches. However, the existing data sets for aerial scene classification, such as UC-Merced data set and WHU-RS19, contain relatively small sizes, and the results on them are already saturated. This largely limits the development of scene classification algorithms. This paper describes the Aerial Image data set (AID): a large-scale data set for aerial scene classification. The goal of AID is to advance the state of the arts in scene classification of remote sensing images. For creating AID, we collect and annotate more than 10 000 aerial scene images. In addition, a comprehensive review of the existing aerial scene classification techniques as well as recent widely used deep learning methods is given. Finally, we provide a performance analysis of typical aerial scene classification and deep learning approaches on AID, which can be served as the baseline results on this benchmark.
We examined the changes in streamflow on the northern slopes of the Tianshan Mountains in northern Xinjiang, China, over two time scales: the past 500 years, based on dendrochronology data; and the past 50 years, based on streamflow data from hydrological stations. The method of artificial neural networks built from the data of the 50-year period was used to reconstruct the streamflow of the 500-year period. The results indicate that streamflow has undergone seven high-flow periods and four low-flow periods during the past 500 years. To identify possible transition points in the streamflow, we applied the Mann-Kendall and running T tests to the 50- and 500-year periods, respectively. During the past 500 years, streamflow has changed significantly from low to high flow about three to four times, and from high to low flow about three to five times. Over the recent 50 years, there have been three phases of variation in river runoff, and the most distinct transition of streamflow occurred in 1996.
As a powerful method of solving the nonlinear optimal control problem, the iterative adaptive dynamic programming (IADP) is usually established on the known controlled system model and is particular for affine nonlinear systems. Since most nonlinear systems are complicated to establish accurate mathematical models, this paper provides a novel data-based approximate optimal control algorithm, named iterative neural dynamic programming (INDP) for affine and non-affine nonlinear systems by using system data rather than accurate system models. The INDP strategy is built within the framework of IADP, where the convergence guarantee of the iteration is provided. The INDP algorithm is implemented based on the model-based heuristic dynamic programming (HDP) structure, where model, action and critic neural networks are employed to approximate the system dynamics, the control law and the iterative cost function, respectively. During the back-propagation of action and critic networks, the approach of directly minimizing the iterative cost function is developed to eliminate the requirement of establishing system models. The neural network implementation of the INDP algorithm is presented in detail and the associated stability is also analyzed. Simulation studies are conducted on affine and non-affine nonlinear systems, and further on the manipulator system, where all results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed data-based approximate optimal control method. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Reinforcement learning (RL) has been applied to solve ramp-metering problems and attracted increasing attention in recent studies. However, improving traffic efficiency is the main concern of these applications, and the issue relating to user equity has not been well considered. A new RL-based system is developed in this paper to deal with equity-related problems. With the definition of three RL elements, including reward, action, and state, this system can capture the information of user equity and balance it with traffic efficiency. Simulation experiments using real traffic data collected from a real-world motorway stretch are designed to test the performance of the new system. Compared with a widely used ramp-metering algorithm ALINEA, the new system shows superior performance on improving both traffic efficiency and user equity. Specifically, with suitable parameter settings, the new system can reduce the total time spent (TTS) by motorway users by 18.5% and maintain an equally distributed total waiting time (TWT) with a low standard deviation for TWT across on-ramps close to 0. (C) 2017 American Society of Civil Engineers.
At present, operational power forecasts are primarily based on the predicted wind speed of a single valued deterministic Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) simulation. However, due to the unavoidable uncertainties from model initialization andior model imperfections, recent numerical techniques cannot directly meet the actual needs of grid dispatch in many cases, which means that achieving accurate forecasts of wind speed and power is still a critical issue. On this topic, our paper contributes to the development of a new multi-step forecasting method termed CSFC-Apriori-WRF, providing a one-day ahead wind speed and power forecast consisting of 96 steps. This method is based on a Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) simulation, a Cuckoo search (CS) optimized fuzzy clustering, and an Apriori association process. First, a wind speed forecast is generated by running a configured WRF model. Next, the wind speed forecasting series is divided into segments that meet certain conditions and are defined as "waves" in this paper. Next, combining the CS-optimized fuzzy clustering and Apriori algorithm, the proposed method extracts the association rules between the shape characteristics and the forecasting error of the divided waves. Applying the association rules in the final optimization process, the proposed method significantly reduces the uncertainties of the WRF simulation and performs best among other models to which it is compared. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The precise estimation of random vibration signals (RVS) is the important guarantee for safety and stability in flight. But in testing phase, RVS with small samples are obtained under the condition of unknown probability distribution. The current estimation methods based on statistical theory could not be used to estimate this kind of small samples. In this paper, a novel bootstrap maximum entropy method (BMEM) is proposed, which combines the advantages of bootstrap method (BM) and maximum entropy method (MEM). In addition, the proposed method is innovatively used for estimating RVS in the frequency domain with small samples. The estimation indices include the estimated expected value, estimated interval and expanded uncertainty. The estimation performance is quantified by the relative error and reliability. Firstly, BMEM is employed to analyze estimated expected value and estimated interval. The estimation results of BMEM are compared with MEM's and BM's quantitatively. Secondly, BMEM is employed to estimate expanded uncertainty. The adaptability of BMEM is proved by simulation experiments for different probability distributions. And the estimation precision of BMEM is demonstrated more accurate than grey system theory (GST), MEM and the conventional statistical methods. Finally, the real and simulation experiments results show that the proposed method is appropriate and effective for estimating RVS with small samples. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The electrokinetic properties of the rumen microbiota are involved in cell surface adhesion and microbial metabolism. An in vitro study was carried out in batch culture to determine the effects of three levels of special surface area (SSA) of biomaterials and four levels of surface tension (ST) of culture medium on electrokinetic properties (Zeta potential, xi; electrokinetic mobility, mu(e)), fermentation parameters (volatile fatty acids, VFAs), and ST over fermentation processes (ST-a, gamma). The obtained results were combined with previously published data (digestibility, D; pH; concentration of ammonia nitrogen, c(NH3-N)) to establish a predictive artificial neural network (ANN) model. Concepts of dual-time series analysis, perturbation theory (PT), and Box-Jenkins Operators were applied for the first time to develop an ANN model to predict the variations of the electrokinetic properties of microbiota. The best dual-time series Radial Basis Functions (RBR) model for xi of rumen microbiota predicted xi for >30,000 cases with a correlation coefficient >0.8. This model provided insight into the correlations between electrokinetic property (zeta potential) of rumen microbiota and the perturbations of physical factors (specific surface area and surface tension) of media, digestibility of substrate, and their metabolites (NH3-N, VFAs) in relation to environmental factors.
The emerging electronic-skins (e-skins) are designed to mimic the comprehensive properties of human perception via flexible device techniques, and the achievement of a vision e-skin for image recognition is a highly interesting topic for applications in bionic organs and robots. In this paper, a new self-powered flexible vision e-skin has been realized from a pixel-addressable matrix of piezophototronic ZnO nanowire arrays. Under applied deformation, the e-skin can actively output piezoelectric voltage (piezoelectric effect), and the output piezoelectric voltage can be significantly influenced by UV illumination. The piezoelectric output can be regarded as both a photodetecting signal and electrical power for driving the device (no external power source is needed). The working mechanism is based on the optoelectronic/piezoelectric coupling effect (piezophototronic effect) of ZnO. The photo-generated carriers inside the ZnO nanowires can partially screen the piezoelectric field, affecting the piezoelectric output. The e-skin device has a 6 x 6 pixel-addressable matrix structure, and can map multi-point UV-stimuli through a multichannel data acquisition method, realizing image recognition. This new device structure and working mechanism may provoke a new research direction for the development of multi-functional e-skins.
Conventional strain sensors rarely have both a high gauge factor and a large strain range simultaneously, so they can only be used in specific situations where only a high sensitivity or a large strain range is required. However, for detecting human motions that include both subtle and large motions, these strain sensors can't meet the diverse demands simultaneously. Here, we come up with laser patterned graphene strain sensors with self-adapted and tunable performance for the first time. A series of strain sensors with either an ultrahigh gauge factor or a preferable strain range can be fabricated simultaneously via one-step laser patterning, and are suitable for detecting all human motions. The strain sensors have a GF of up to 457 with a strain range of 35%, or have a strain range of up to 100% with a GF of 268. Most importantly, the performance of the strain sensors can be easily tuned by adjusting the patterns of the graphene, so that the sensors can meet diverse demands in both subtle and large motion situations. The graphene strain sensors show significant potential in applications such as wearable electronics, health monitoring and intelligent robots. Furthermore, the facile, fast and low-cost fabrication method will make them possible and practical to be used for commercial applications in the future.
Atomic doping of clusters is known as an effective approach to stabilize or modify the structures and properties of resulting doped clusters. We herein report the effect of manganese (Mn) doping on the structure evolution of small-sized boron (B) clusters. The global minimum structures of both neutral and charged Mn doped B cluster MnBnQ (n = 10-20 and Q = 0, +/- 1) have been proposed through extensive first-principles swarm-intelligence based structure searches. It is found that Mn doping has significantly modified the grow behaviors of B clusters, leading to two novel structural transitions from planar to tubular and then to cage-like B structures in both neutral and charged species. Half-sandwich-type structures are most favorable for small MnBn-/0/+ (n <= 13) clusters and gradually transform to Mn-centered double-ring tubular structures at MnB16-/0/+ 0 clusters with superior thermodynamic stabilities compared with their neighbors. Most strikingly, endohedral cages become the groundstate structures for larger MnBn-/0/+ (n >= 19) clusters, among which MnB20+ adopts a highly symmetric structure with superior thermodynamic stability and a large HOMO-LUMO gap of 4.53 eV. The unique stability of the endohedral MnB20+ cage is attributed to the geometric fit and formation of 18-electron closed-shell configuration. The results significantly advance our understanding about the structure and bonding of B-based clusters and strongly suggest transition-metal doping as a viable route to synthesize intriguing B-based nanomaterials.
Along with the developments of deep learning, many recent architectures have been proposed for face recognition and even get close to human performance. However, accurately recognizing an identity from seriously noisy face images still remains a challenge. In this paper, we propose a carefully designed deep neural network coined noise-resistant network (NR-Network) for face recognition under noise. We present a multi-input structure in the final fully connected layer of the proposed NR-Network to extract a multi-scale and more discriminative feature from the input image. Experimental results such as the receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves on the AR database injected with different noise types show that the NR-Network is visibly superior to some state-of-the-art feature extraction algorithms and also achieves better performance than two deep benchmark networks for face recognition under noise.
This paper investigates the distributed asynchronous event-triggered consensus problem for a class of nonlinear multi-agent systems. The extended dissipative performance index is introduced for solving the consensus problem with disturbances, which can provide H-infinity, L-2 - L-infinity, passivity and dissipative consensus performances by tuning weighting matrices, respectively. Based on model transformation, sufficient consensus conditions are developed and the desired consensus controllers are designed such that the extended dissipative performance can be achieved. Two illustrative examples are utilized to show the effectiveness of the established theoretical method. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Estimating Density Functional Theory (DFT) calculation error is an important while challenging task in computational material science. The calculation contains inherent errors due to improper input parameters and approximated exchange-correlation functional. In this paper, we present a data-driven approach of using machine learning techniques to estimate the error of DFT calculation. We prepare the data by high-throughput first principle DFT simulation and experimental data collection. The single-hidden layer back propagation feedforward neural network (SLBPFN) constructed based on the proposed cross validation algorithm, and support vector machine for regression (SVR) techniques are employed to build regression models to predict the DFT calculation error. As a demonstration, the developed regression models are used to predict errors in calculating elastic constants of cubic binary alloys. It has been demonstrated that the machine learning techniques can predict DFT calculation error of elastic constants with an acceptable accuracy. It also shows the BP neural network built by our proposed cross validation algorithm can provide a better prediction. Our study is a first-invasive work of using machine learning techniques to estimate the errors in calculating elastic constants of binary alloys. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a synchronous solution method for multi-player zero-sum games without system dynamics is established based on neural network. The policy iteration (PI) algorithm is presented to solve the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation. It is proven that the obtained iterative cost function is convergent to the optimal game value. For avoiding system dynamics, off-policy learning method is given to obtain the iterative cost function, controls and disturbances based on Pl. Critic neural network (CNN), action neural networks (ANNs) and disturbance neural networks (DNNs) are used to approximate the cost function, controls and disturbances. The weights of neural networks compose the synchronous weight matrix, and the uniformly ultimately bounded (UUB) of the synchronous weight matrix is proven. Two examples are given to show that the effectiveness of the proposed synchronous solution method for multi-player ZS games. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In the past two decades, artificial skin-like materials have received increasing research interests for their broad applications in artificial intelligence, wearable devices, and soft robotics. However, profound challenges remain in terms of imitating human skin because of its unique combination of mechanical and sensory properties. In this work, a bioinspired mineral hydrogel is developed to fabricate a novel type of mechanically adaptable ionic skin sensor. Due to its unique viscoelastic properties, the hydrogel-based capacitive sensor is compliant, self-healable, and can sense subtle pressure changes, such as a gentle finger touch, human motion, or even small water droplets. It might not only show great potential in applications such as artificial intelligence, human/machine interactions, personal healthcare, and wearable devices, but also promote the development of next-generation mechanically adaptable intelligent skin-like devices.
Here, novel multifunctional electronic skins (E-skins) based on aligned few-walled carbon nanotube (AFWCNT) polymer composites with a piezoresistive functioning mechanism different from the mostly investigated theory of "tunneling current channels" in randomly dispersed CNT polymer composites are demonstrated. The high performances of as-prepared E-skins originate from the anisotropic conductivity of AFWCNT array embedded in flexible composite and the distinct variation of "tube-to-tube" interfacial resistance responsive to bending or stretching. The polymer/AFWCNT-based flexion-sensitive E-skins exhibit high precision and linearity, together with low power consumption (<10 mu W) and good stability (no degradation after 15 000 bending-unbending cycles). Moreover, polymer/AFWCNT composites can also be used for the construction of tensile-sensitive E-skins, which exhibit high sensitivity toward tensile force. The polymer/AFWCNT-based E-skins show remarkable performances when applied to monitor the motions and postures of body joints (such as fingers), a capability that can find wide applications in wearable human-machine communication interfaces, portable motion detectors, and bionic robots.
A prescribed performance adaptive neural tracking control problem is investigated for strict-feedback Markovian jump nonlinear systems with time-varying delay. First, a new prescribed performance constraint variable is proposed to generate the virtual control that forces the tracking error to fall within prescribed boundaries. Combining with the approximation capability of neural networks and backstepping design, the adaptive tracking controller is designed. The designed controller is independent on time delay by constructing appropriate Lyapunov functions to offset the unknown time-varying delays. It is proved that the closed-loop system is uniformly ultimately bounded in probability, and that both steady-state and transient-state performances are guaranteed. Finally, simulation results are given to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
By using the distributed consensus theory in multi-agent systems, the strategy of economic power dispatch is studied in a smart grid, where many generation units work cooperatively to achieve an optimal solution in a local area. The relationship between the distributed optimization solution and consensus in multi-agent systems is first revealed in this paper, which can serve as a general framework for future studies of this topic. First, without the constraints of capacity limitations, it is found that the total cost for all the generators in a smart grid can achieve the minimal value if the consensus can be reached for the incremental cost of all the generation units and the balance between the supply and demand of powers is kept. Then, by designing a distributed consensus control protocol in multi-agent systems with appropriate initial conditions, incremental cost consensus can be realized and the balance for the powers can also be satisfied. Furthermore, the difficult problem for distributed optimization of the total cost function with bounded capacity limitations is also discussed. A reformulated barrier function is proposed to simplify the analysis, under which the total cost can reach the minimal value if consensus can be achieved for the modified incremental cost with some appropriate initial values. Thus, the distributed optimization problems for the cost function of all generation units with and without bounded capacity limitations can both be solved by using the idea of consensus in multi-agent systems, whose theoretical analysis is still lacking nowadays. Finally, some simulation examples are given to verify the effectiveness of the results in this paper.
Premature ventricular contraction (PVC), which is a common form of cardiac arrhythmia caused by ectopic heartbeat, can lead to life-threatening cardiac conditions. Computer-aided PVC detection is of considerable importance in medical centers or outpatient ECG rooms. In this paper, we proposed a new approach that combined deep neural networks and rules inference for PVC detection. The detection performance and generalization were studied using publicly available databases: the MIT-BIH arrhythmia database (MIT-BIH-AR) and the Chinese Cardiovascular Disease Database (CCDD). The PVC detection accuracy on the MIT-BIH-AR database was 99.41%, with a sensitivity and specificity of 97.59% and 99.54%, respectively, which were better than the results from other existing methods. To test the generalization capability, the detection performance was also evaluated on the CCDD. The effectiveness of the proposed method was confirmed by the accuracy (98.03%), sensitivity (96.42%) and specificity (98.06%) with the dataset over 140,000 ECG recordings of the CCDD. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A method using a nonlinear auto-regressive neural network with exogenous input (NARXnn) to retrieve time series soil moisture (SM) that is spatially and temporally continuous and high quality over the Heihe River Basin (HRB) in China was investigated in this study. The input training data consisted of the X-band dual polarization brightness temperature (TB) and the Ka-band V polarization TB from the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer II (AMSR2), Global Land Satellite product (GLASS) Leaf Area Index (LAI), precipitation from the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) and the Global Precipitation Measurement (GPM), and a global 30 arc-second elevation (GTOPO-30). The output training data were generated from fused SM products of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) and the Land Surface Parameter Model (LPRM). The reprocessed fused SM from two years (2013 and 2014) was inputted into the NARXnn for training; subsequently, SM during a third year (2015) was estimated. Direct and indirect validations were then performed during the period 2015 by comparing with in situ measurements, SM from JAXA, LPRM and the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS), as well as precipitation data from TRMM and GPM. The results showed that the SM predictions from NARXnn performed best, as indicated by their higher correlation coefficients (R >= 0.85 for the whole year of 2015), lower Bias values (absolute value of Bias <= 0.02) and root mean square error values (RMSE <= 0.06), and their improved response to precipitation. This method is being used to produce the NARXnn SM product over the HRB in China.
In sharp contrast to the traditional category/subcategory level image retrieval, product image search aims to find the images containing the exact same product. This is a challenging problem because in addition to being robust under different imaging conditions such as varying viewpoints and illumination changes, the features should also be able to distinguish the specific product among many similar products. Consequently, it is important to utilize a large dataset, containing many product classes, to learn a strongly discriminative representation. Building such a dataset requires laborious manual annotation. Toward learning fine-grained, robust, discriminative features for product image search, we present a novel paradigm that can construct the required dataset without any human annotation. Unlike other fine-grained recognition works that rely on high-quality annotated datasets and are very narrowly focused on a specific object category, our method handles multiple object classes and requires minimum human effort. First, an ImageNet pretrained model is used to generate product clusters. As the original features from ImageNet are not discriminative, the clusters generated by this unsupervised procedure contain much noise. We alleviate noise by explicitly modeling noise distribution and automatically detecting errors during learning. The proposed paradigm is general, requires minimum human efforts, and is applicable to any deep learning task where fine-grained discriminative features are desired. Extensive experiments on the ALISC dataset have demonstrated that our approach is sound and effective, surpassing the baseline GoogleNet model by 15.09%.
In recent years, cognition map techniques for human insights have already played a significant part in complex or ill-structured problem solving. There are increasing interests on computational methods rather than hand-drawing methods to build an cognition graph for insights generation. In this paper, a systematic approach called Temporal-IdeaGraph is proposed to build a directed cognition graph based on event sequences. Firstly, an algorithm of frequent sequence mining is employed to capture sequential patterns and a method is then designed to remove duplicate patterns. Secondly, relevant patterns are merged and visualized into a directed cognition graph. An algorithm is further proposed to identify bridge events and bridge patterns which would trigger human's deeper insights for better decision making. Finally, two real case studies validate the effectiveness of proposed approach.
Convolutional neural network (CNN) has achieved the state-of-the-art performance in many different visual tasks. Learned from a large-scale training data set, CNN features are much more discriminative and accurate than the handcrafted features. Moreover, CNN features are also transferable among different domains. On the other hand, traditional dictionary-based features (such as BoW and spatial pyramid matching) contain much more local discriminative and structural information, which is implicitly embedded in the images. To further improve the performance, in this paper, we propose to combine CNN with dictionary-based models for scene recognition and visual domain adaptation (DA). Specifically, based on the well-tuned CNN models (e.g., AlexNet and VGG Net), two dictionary-based representations are further constructed, namely, mid-level local representation (MLR) and convolutional Fisher vector (CFV) representation. In MLR, an efficient two-stage clustering method, i.e., weighted spatial and feature space spectral clustering on the parts of a single image followed by clustering all representative parts of all images, is used to generate a class-mixture or a class-specific part dictionary. After that, the part dictionary is used to operate with the multiscale image inputs for generating mid-level representation. In CFV, a multiscale and scale-proportional Gaussian mixture model training strategy is utilized to generate Fisher vectors based on the last convolutional layer of CNN. By integrating the complementary information of MLR, CFV, and the CNN features of the fully connected layer, the state-of-the-art performance can be achieved on scene recognition and DA problems. An interested finding is that our proposed hybrid representation (from VGG net trained on ImageNet) is also complementary to GoogLeNet and/or VGG-11 (trained on Place205) greatly.
In this paper, we propose a multiagent reinforcement learning algorithm dealing with fully cooperative tasks. The algorithm is called frequency of the maximum reward Q-learning (FMRQ). FMRQ aims to achieve one of the optimal Nash equilibria so as to optimize the performance index in multiagent systems. The frequency of obtaining the highest global immediate reward instead of immediate reward is used as the reinforcement signal. With FMRQ each agent does not need the observation of the other agents' actions and only shares its state and reward at each step. We validate FMRQ through case studies of repeated games: four cases of two-player two-action and one case of three-player two-action. It is demonstrated that FMRQ can converge to one of the optimal Nash equilibria in these cases. Moreover, comparison experiments on tasks with multiple states and finite steps are conducted. One is box-pushing and the other one is distributed sensor network problem. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms others with higher performance.
Ultrasound (US) imaging is a widely used screening tool for obstetric examination and diagnosis. Accurate acquisition of fetal standard planes with key anatomical structures is very crucial for substantial biometric measurement and diagnosis. However, the standard plane acquisition is a labor-intensive task and requires operator equipped with a thorough knowledge of fetal anatomy. Therefore, automatic approaches are highly demanded in clinical practice to alleviate the workload and boost the examination efficiency. The automatic detection of standard planes from US videos remains a challenging problem due to the high intraclass and low interclass variations of standard planes, and the relatively low image quality. Unlike previous studies which were specifically designed for individual anatomical standard planes, respectively, we present a general framework for the automatic identification of different standard planes from US videos. Distinct from conventional way that devises hand-crafted visual features for detection, our framework explores in-and between-plane feature learning with a novel composite framework of the convolutional and recurrent neural networks. To further address the issue of limited training data, a multitask learning framework is implemented to exploit common knowledge across detection tasks of distinctive standard planes for the augmentation of feature learning. Extensive experiments have been conducted on hundreds of US fetus videos to corroborate the better efficacy of the proposed framework on the difficult standard plane detection problem.
The Chinese government implemented the ambitious south-north water transfer project (SNWTP), which aims to transport water from the Yangtze to the north of China where water shortages are severe. Although the ecological impacts of this project have been addressed publically, there remains a poor understanding of the effects of such large-scale water transfers on the populations of aquatic species. The potential ecological impacts of such water transfers on the Hongze Lake fish assemblages are assessed here using Self-Organizing Map (SOM) and Random Forest (RF) modeling. Using SOM, twenty-three fish species in 15 sampling sites were classified into two assemblages and four sub-assemblages corresponding to four distinct habitats (deep water macrophytes, deep water bare silt, shallow water bare silt, and shallow water macrophytes). The RF model further showed that water depth and transparency were the abiotic drivers underpinning fish assemblages in Hongze Lake. As the SNWTP is forecasted to modify the distribution of water depth and water clarity, major knock-on effects are expected on downstream lake fish assemblages.
Ground-based cloud classification is crucial for meteorological research and has received great concern in recent years. However, it is very challenging due to the extreme appearance variations under different atmospheric conditions. Although the convolutional neural networks have achieved remarkable performance in image classification, no one has evaluated their suitability for cloud classification. In this letter, we propose to use the deep convolutional activations-based features (DCAFs) for ground-based cloud classification. Considering the unique characteristic of cloud, we believe the local rich texture information might be more important than the global layout information and, thus, give a comprehensive evaluation of using both shallow convolutional layers-based features and DCAFs. Experimental results on two challenging public data sets demonstrate that although the realization of DCAF is quite straightforward without any use-dependent tricks, it outperforms conventional hand-crafted features considerably.
Recommendation has provoked vast amount of attention and research in recent decades. Most previous works employ matrix factorization techniques to learn the latent factors of users and items. And many subsequent works consider external information, e.g., social relationships of users and items' attributions, to improve the recommendation performance under the matrix factorization framework. However, matrix factorization methods may not make full use of the limited information from rating or check-in matrices, and achieve unsatisfying results. Recently, deep learning has proven able to learn good representation in natural language processing, image classification, and so on. Along this line, we propose a new representation learning framework called Recommendation via Dual-Autoencoder (ReDa). In this framework, we simultaneously learn the new hidden representations of users and items using autoencoders, and minimize the deviations of training data by the learnt representations of users and items. Based on this framework, we develop a gradient descent method to learn hidden representations. Extensive experiments conducted on several real-world data sets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method compared with state-of-the-art matrix factorization based methods. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Before the big data era, scene recognition was often approached with two-step inference using localized intermediate representations (objects, topics, and so on). One of such approaches is the semantic manifold (SM), in which patches and images are modeled as points in a semantic probability simplex. Patch models are learned resorting to weak supervision via image labels, which leads to the problem of scene categories co-occurring in this semantic space. Fortunately, each category has its own co-occurrence patterns that are consistent across the images in that category. Thus, discovering and modeling these patterns are critical to improve the recognition performance in this representation. Since the emergence of large data sets, such as ImageNet and Places, these approaches have been relegated in favor of the much more powerful convolutional neural networks (CNNs), which can automatically learn multilayered representations from the data. In this paper, we address many limitations of the original SM approach and related works. We propose discriminative patch representations using neural networks and further propose a hybrid architecture in which the semantic manifold is built on top of multiscale CNNs. Both representations can be computed significantly faster than the Gaussian mixture models of the original SM. To combine multiple scales, spatial relations, and multiple features, we formulate rich context models using Markov random fields. To solve the optimization problem, we analyze global and local approaches, where a top-down hierarchical algorithm has the best performance. Experimental results show that exploiting different types of contextual relations jointly consistently improves the recognition accuracy.
For solving the singularity problem arising in the control of manipulators, an efficient way is to maximize itsmanipulability. However, it is challenging to optimize manipulability effectively because it is a nonconvex function to the joint angles of a robotic arm. In addition, the involvement of an inversion operation in the expression of manipulability makes it even hard for timely optimization due to the intensively computational burden for matrix inversion. In this paper, we make progress on real-time manipulability optimization by establishing a dynamic neural network for recurrent calculation of manipulability-maximal control actions for redundant manipulators under physical constraints in an inverse-free manner. By expressing position tracking and matrix inversion as equality constraints, physical limits as inequality constraints, and velocity-level manipulability measure, which is affine to the joint velocities, as the objective function, the manipulability optimization scheme is further formulated as a constrained quadratic program. Then, a dynamic neural network with rigorously provable convergence is constructed to solve such a problem online. Computer simulations are conducted and show that, compared to the existing methods, the proposed scheme can raise the manipulability almost 40% on average, which substantiates the efficacy, accuracy, and superiority of the proposed manipulability optimization scheme.
With the rapid growth of Internet applications, sequential prediction in collaborative filtering has become an emerging and crucial task. Given the behavioral history of a specific user, predicting his or her next choice plays a key role in improving various online services. Meanwhile, there are more and more scenarios with multiple types of behaviors, while existing works mainly study sequences with a single type of behavior. As a widely used approach, Markov chain based models are based on a strong independence assumption. As two classical neural network methods for modeling sequences, recurrent neural networks cannot well model short-term contexts, and the log-bilinear model is not suitable for long-term contexts. In this paper, we propose a Recurrent Log-BiLinear (RLBL) model. It can model multiple types of behaviors in historical sequences with behavior-specific transition matrices. RLBL applies a recurrent structure for modeling long-term contexts. It models several items in each hidden layer and employs position-specific transition matrices for modeling short-term contexts. Moreover, considering continuous time difference in behavioral history is a key factor for dynamic prediction, we further extend RLBL and replace position-specific transition matrices with time-specific transition matrices, and accordingly propose a Time-Aware Recurrent Log-BiLinear (TA-RLBL) model. Experimental results show that the proposed RLBL model and TA-RLBL model yield significant improvements over the competitive compared methods on three datasets, i.e., Movielens-1M dataset, Global Terrorism Database and Tmall dataset with different numbers of behavior types.
Age estimation from face images is an important yet difficult task in computer vision. Its main difficulty lies in how to design aging features that remain discriminative in spite of large facial appearance variations. Meanwhile, due to the difficulty of collecting and labeling datasets that contain sufficient samples for all possible ages, the age distributions of most benchmark datasets are often imbalanced, which makes this problem more challenge. In this work, we try to solve these difficulties by means of the mainstream deep learning techniques. Specifically, we use a convolutional neural network which can learn discriminative aging features from raw face images without any handcrafting. To combat the sample imbalance problem, we propose a novel cumulative hidden layer which is supervised by a point-wise cumulative signal. With this cumulative hidden layer, our model is learnt indirectly using faces with neighbouring ages and thus alleviate the sample imbalance problem. In order to learn more effective aging features, we further propose a comparative ranking layer which is supervised by a pair-wise comparative signal. This comparative ranking layer facilitates aging feature learning and improves the performance of the main age estimation task. In addition, since one face can be included in many different training pairs, we can make full use of the limited training data. It is noted that both of these two novel layers are differentiable, so our model is end-to-end trainable. Extensive experiments on the two of the largest benchmark datasets show that our deep age estimation model gains notable advantage on accuracy when compared against existing methods.
Given a face image, the problem of age estimation is to predict the actual age from the visual appearance of the face. In this work, we investigate this problem by means of the deep learning techniques. We comprehensively diagnose the training and evaluating procedures of the deep learning models for age estimation on two of the largest datasets. Our diagnosis includes three different kinds of formulations for the age estimation problem using five most representative loss functions, as well as three different architectures to incorporate multi-task learning with race and gender classification. We start our diagnoses process from a simple baseline architecture from previous work. With appropriate problem formulation and loss function, we obtain state-of-the-art performance with the simple baseline architecture. By further incorporating our newly proposed deep multitask learning architecture, the age estimation performance is further improved with high-accuracy race and gender classification results obtained simultaneously. With all the insights gained from the diagnosing process, we finally build a deep multi-task age estimation model which obtains a MAE of 2.96 on the Morph II dataset and 5.75 on the WebFace dataset, both of which improve previous best results by a large margin.
Face verification, which aims to determine whether two face images belong to the same identity, is an important task in multimedia area. Face verification becomes more challenging when the person is wearing makeup. However, collecting sufficient makeup and non-makeup image pairs are tedious, which brings great challenges for deep learning methods of face verification. In this paper, we propose a new weakly supervised method for face verification. Our method takes advantages of the plentiful video resources available from the Internet. Our face verification model is pre-trained on the free videos and fine-tuned on small makeup and non-makeup datasets. To fully exploit the video contexts and the limited makeup and non-makeup datasets, many techniques are used to improve the performance. A novel loss function with a triplet term and two pairwise terms is defined, and multiple facial parts are combined by the proposed voting strategy to generate better verification results. Experiments on a benchmark dataset (Guo et al., 2014) [1] and a newly collected face dataset show the priority of the proposed method.
In this study, we consider a non-fragile H-infinity filter design for a class of continuous time delayed Takagi-Sugeno (T-S) fuzzy systems. The filter design is assumed to include randomly occurring gain variations according to the filter's implementation. Two independent Bernoulli distributions are employed to describe these random phenomena. We focus mainly on the design of a non-fragile filter so the filtering error system is asymptotically mean-square stable with the prescribed H-infinity performance in the presence of both randomly occurring gain variations and a time delay. A sufficient condition is developed by employing the Lyapunov functional approach. Based on this condition, an improved H-infinity filter for delayed T-S fuzzy system is described, which is free of randomly occurring gain variations. The filter parameters are obtained by solving a set of linear matrix inequalities. The effectiveness and the advantages of the proposed techniques are demonstrated by two numerical examples. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) are critical for many biological processes. It is therefore important to develop accurate high-throughput methods for identifying PPI to better understand protein function, disease occurrence, and therapy design. Though various computational methods for predicting PPI have been developed, their robustness for prediction with external datasets is unknown. Deep-learning algorithms have achieved successful results in diverse areas, but their effectiveness for PPI prediction has not been tested.
Gait recognition has been proved useful in human identification at a distance. But many variations such as view, clothing, carrying condition make gait recognition is still challenging in real applications. The variations make it is hard to extract invariant feature to distinguish different subjects. For view variation, one view transformation model can be employed to convert the gait feature from one view to another. Most existing models need to estimate the view angle first, and can Work for only one view pair. They can not convert multi-view data to one specific view efficiently. Other Variations also need some specific models to handle. We employed one deep model based on auto-encoder for invariant gait extraction. The model can synthesize gait feature in a progressive Way by stacked multi-layer auto-encoders. The unique advantage is that it can extract invariant gait feature using only one model, and the extracted feature is robust to view, clothing and carrying condition variation. The proposed method is evaluated on two large gait datasets, CASIA Gait Dataset B and SZU RGB-D Gait Dataset. The experimental results show that the proposed method can achieve state-of-the-art performance by only one uniform model. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Synthetic polymer actuators have attracted increasing attention for their potential applications in artificial muscles, soft robotics and sensors. The majority of previous efforts have focused on smart hydrogels with bilayer structures that can change their shape in response to environmental stimuli, such as temperature, light and certain chemicals. However, the practical application of hydrogels is limited because of their low modulus and weak mechanical strength. Here we synthesized a robust monolithic actuator of a macro-scale hydro/organo binary cooperative Janus copolymer film. The process involves direct, one-step interfacial polymerization of immiscible hydrophilic and hydrophobic vinyl monomer solutions, and the resultant product exhibited binary cooperative shape transformation to multiple external stimuli. The Janus copolymer film can work in both aqueous solutions and organic solvents, with bidirectional and site-specific bending arising from cooperative asymmetric swelling/shrinking of the hydrogel and organogel networks. In addition, the as-prepared Janus copolymer film can act as a sensor element for solvent leakage detection. This binary cooperative strategy is applicable to most immiscible monomer systems and provides a general approach to developing novel functional copolymer materials.
In this paper, the fully cooperative game with partially constrained inputs in the continuous-time Markov decision process environment is investigated using a novel data-driven adaptive dynamic programming method. First, the model-based policy iteration algorithm with one iteration loop is proposed, where the knowledge of system dynamics is required. Then, it is proved that the iteration sequences of value functions and control policies can converge to the optimal ones. In order to relax the exact knowledge of the system dynamics, a model-free iterative equation is derived based on the model-based algorithm and the integral reinforcement learning. Furthermore, a data-driven adaptive dynamic programming is developed to solve the model-free equation using generated system data. From the theoretical analysis, we prove that this model-free iterative equation is equivalent to the model-based iterative equations, which means that the data-driven algorithm can approach the optimal value function and control policies. For the implementation purpose, three neural networks are constructed to approximate the solution of the model-free iteration equation using the off-policy learning scheme after the available system data is collected in the online measurement phase. Finally, two examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme. (C) 2017 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Many object instance retrieval systems are typically based on matching of local features, such as SIFT. However, these local descriptors serve as low-level clues, which are not sufficiently distinctive to prevent false matches. Recently, deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) have shown their promise as a semantic-aware representation for many computer vision tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to employ CNN evidences to improve the SIFT matching accuracy, which plays a critical role in improving the object retrieval performance. To weaken the interference of noise, we extract compact CNN representations from a number of generic object regions. Then a query-adaptive method is proposed to choose appropriate CNN evidence to verify each pre-matched SIFT pair. Two different visual matching verification functions are introduced and evaluated. Moreover, we investigate the suitability of fine-tuning the CNN for our proposed approach. Extensive experiments on benchmark dataSets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for particular object retrieval. Our results compare favorably to the state-of-the-art methods with acceptable memory usage and query time. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: Epilepsy, a prevalent neurological disorder, appears self-termination. The endogenous mechanism for seizure self-termination remains to be addressed in order to develop new strategies for epilepsy treatment. We aim to examine the role of activity-induced spontaneous spikes at GABAergic neurons as an endogenous mechanism in the seizure self-termination.
Pervasive social networking (PSN) provides instant social activities such as communications and gaming, which attracts a growing attention. Under this circumstance, the study and analysis of users' behaviors has a profound meaning, which may be extended to other relevant fields. In this article, we define and quantify users' patterns to study social behaviors, after discussing and reconsidering social characteristics in PSN. Meanwhile, we treat PSN as a market, based on the standpoint that data can be priced and tradable. After analyzing its market structure, we describe PSN as a monopolistically competitive market, which contains multiple providers selling specialized goods. Afterwards, we study the social behaviors in this market from an economic perspective, namely applying market models. Finally, decentralized deep reinforcement learning is proposed to estimate users' patterns and to solve market models, the prisoner's dilemma and the Cournot model to be specific. Simulation results demonstrate the flexibility and efficiency of our algorithms.
In this study, the state feedback fixed-time control problem is addressed for a class of high-order strict-feedback non-linear systems (SFNSs) with mismatching system uncertainties. Based on the fixed-time control technique and uniform exact difference method, a new fixed-time tracking control algorithm via the backstepping method in conjunction with a novel second-order sliding mode super-twisting-like structure adaptive fixed-time disturbance observer is proposed. Compared with many existing finite-time control results in which the convergence time grows unboundedly when the system initial conditions grow, the fixed-time control provides faster convergence rate by using high-degree terms and the settling time function derived only with controller parameters, is allowed to be adjusted independently of the system initial conditions. Moreover, to avoid the computation explosion, the singularity problem and to relax the assumption on the mismatching system uncertainties, the dynamics surface control method is employed based on a novel non-linear non-smooth first-order filter. Then the semi-globally uniformly fixed-time convergent performance of the high-order SFNSs is achieved. Finally, theoretical results are supported by simulation and experimental results.
Organic-device-based tactile-perception systems can open up new opportunities for the next generation of intelligent products. To meet the critical requirements of artificial perception systems, the efficient construction of organic smart elements with integrated sensing and signal processing functionalities is highly desired, but remains a challenge. This study presents a dual-organic-transistor-based tactile-perception element (DOT-TPE) with biomimetic functionality by the construction of organic synaptic transistors with integrated sensing transistors. The unique geometry of the DOT-TPE permits instantaneous sensing of pressure stimuli and synapse-like processing of an electric signal in a single element. More importantly, these organic-transistor-based tactile-perception elements can be built into arrays to serve as bionic tactile-perception systems. The combined biomimetic functionality of tactile-perception systems, together with their promising features of flexibility and large-area fabrication, makes this work represent a step forward toward novel e-skin devices for artificial intelligence.
Fei-Fei Li, a well-known scientist focusing on computer vision and Artificial Intelligence (AI), did not expect such zeal in China about AI. During her last visit to Beijing, the professor of Stanford University drew much attention from both academy and industry here; NSR took the opportunity to interview Professor Li. She points out that, although the neural network has made marvelous advances in the past 15-20 years, there are still enormous challenges ahead. On the one hand, computational models for AI, such as many current deep neural networks, have theoretical bottlenecks to resolve, such as interpretability and explainability; on the other hand, AI should offer more in solving societal problems and in accelerating innovation in industries such as healthcare, traffic control and agriculture. This would be a more practical way to realize the potential and speed up the advancement of AI. Moreover, Prof. Li is interested but cautious about Artificial General Intelligence (AGI).
This paper introduces seven brain-inspired rules that are deeply rooted in the understanding of the brain to improve multi-layer spiking neural networks (SNNs). The dynamics of neurons, synapses, and plasticity models are considered to be major characteristics of information processing in brain neural networks. Hence, incorporating these models and rules to traditional SNNs is expected to improve their efficiency. The proposed SNN model can mainly be divided into three parts: the spike generation layer, the hidden layers, and the output layer. In the spike generation layer, non-temporary signals such as static images are converted into spikes by both local and global feature-converting methods. In the hidden layers, the rules of dynamic neurons, synapses, the proportion of different kinds of neurons, and various spike timing dependent plasticity (STDP) models are incorporated. In the output layer, the function of classification for excitatory neurons and winner take all (WTA) for inhibitory neurons are realized. MNIST dataset is used to validate the classification accuracy of the proposed neural network model. Experimental results show that higher accuracy will be achieved when more brain-inspired rules (with careful selection) are integrated into the learning procedure.
Background: Outcome feedback which indicates behavioral consequences are crucial for reinforcement learning and environmental adaptation. Nevertheless, outcome information in daily life is often totally or partially ambiguous. Studying how people interpret this kind of information would provide important knowledge about the human evaluative system.
Semantic segmentation is a fundamental task in remote sensing image processing. The large appearance variations of ground objects make this task quite challenging. Recently, deep convolutional neural networks (DCNNs) have shown outstanding performance in this task. A common strategy of these methods (e.g., SegNet) for performance improvement is to combine the feature maps learned at different DCNN layers. However, such a combination is usually implemented via feature map summation or concatenation, indicating that the features are considered indiscriminately. In fact, features at different positions contribute differently to the final performance. It is advantageous to automatically select adaptive features when merging different-layer feature maps. To achieve this goal, we propose a gated convolutional neural network to fulfill this task. Specifically, we explore the relationship between the information entropy of the feature maps and the label-error map, and then a gate mechanism is embedded to integrate the feature maps more effectively. The gate is implemented by the entropy maps, which are generated to assign adaptive weights to different feature maps as their relative importance. Generally, the entropy maps, i.e., the gates, guide the network to focus on the highly-uncertain pixels, where detailed information from lower layers is required to improve the separability of these pixels. The selected features are finally combined to feed into the classifier layer, which predicts the semantic label of each pixel. The proposed method achieves competitive segmentation accuracy on the public ISPRS 2D Semantic Labeling benchmark, which is challenging for segmentation by only using the RGB images.
In this paper, the event-triggered state estimation problem is investigated for a class of discrete-time multidelayed neural networks with stochastic parameters and incomplete measurements. In order to cater for more realistic transmission process of the neural signals, we make the first attempt to introduce a set of stochastic variables to characterize the random fluctuations of system parameters. In the addressed neural network model, the delays among the interconnections are allowed to be different, which are more general than those in the existing literature. The incomplete information under consideration includes randomly occurring sensor saturations and quantizations. For the purpose of energy saving, an event-triggered state estimator is constructed and a sufficient condition is given under which the estimation error dynamics is exponentially ultimately bounded in the mean square. It is worth noting that the ultimate boundedness of the error dynamics is explicitly estimated. The characterization of the desired estimator gain is designed in terms of the solution to a certain matrix inequality. Finally, a numerical simulation example is presented to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed event-triggered state estimation scheme.
With the emergence of online social networks, the social network-based recommendation approach is popularly used. The major benefit of this approach is the ability of dealing with the problems with cold-start users. In addition to social networks, user trust information also plays an important role to obtain reliable recommendations. Although matrix factorization (MF) becomes dominant in recommender systems, the recommendation largely relies on the initialization of the user and item latent feature vectors. Aiming at addressing these challenges, we develop a novel trust-based approach for recommendation in social networks. In particular, we attempt to leverage deep learning to determinate the initialization in MF for trust-aware social recommendations and to differentiate the community effect in user's trusted friendships. A two-phase recommendation process is proposed to utilize deep learning in initialization and to synthesize the users' interests and their trusted friends' interests together with the impact of community effect for recommendations. We perform extensive experiments on real-world social network data to demonstrate the accuracy and effectiveness of our proposed approach in comparison with other state-of-the-art methods.
In this paper, a novel identifier-actor-critic optimal control scheme is developed for discrete-time affine nonlinear systems with uncertainties. In contrast to traditional adaptive dynamic programming methodology, which requires at least partial knowledge of the system dynamics, a neural-network identifier is employed to learn the unknown control coefficient matrix working together with actor-critic-based scheme to solve the optimal control online. The critic network learns the approximate value function at each step. The actor network attempts to improve the current policy based on the approximate value function. The weights of all neural networks are updated at each sampling instant. Lyapunov theory is utilized to prove the stability of closed-loop system. It shows that system states and neural network weights are uniformly ultimately bounded. Finally, simulations are provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the developed method. Copyright (C) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Background and objective: Automatic osteosarcoma tumor segmentation on computed tomography (CT) images is a challenging problem, as tumors have large spatial and structural variabilities. In this study, an automatic tumor segmentation method, which was based on a fully convolutional networks with multiple supervised side output layers (MSFCN), was presented.
Maintenance for nuclear fusion vessel is crucial, yet it faces great difficulty due to the complex internal physical and geometric conditions. Since the limitation on inherent strength, load, size, etc, a manipulator robot can only complete very limited tasks. Robotic arm systems for remote operation such as JET and MPD can carry certain tools to complete a variety of operating tasks, but it is difficult to achieve the system which is very complex. Therefore, if the inherent idea of using a single robot to complete the specified functions can change, it is possible to make the problems simpler and easier to solve by adding auxiliary robots working together with the robotic arm systems to complete the assigned tasks. Under the above background, based on the deeply analyzing and refining the functional requirements of the vessel operation robot, proceeding from the perspective of ability to move and carry a certain operating device, this paper presents a wormlike creeping mobile robot walking on the V-shaped circular slot inside a nuclear fusion vessel such as EAST (Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak). We have designed and implemented the principle prototype of the robot which has chain structure with n (n >= 2) creeping units. Each creeping unit is of three-part structure, which consists of fore segment, mid segment and back segment connected by bidirectional universal joint. The fore and back segments stretch the paws to contact the surface of V-shaped slot, while the mid segment realizes the overall movement of robot. In order to evaluate the design and implementation of the mobile robot platform, functional analysis is devoted to modules of robot. Especially for the requirements of walking stability on the V-shaped slot, creeping gait planning is analyzed to construct a multi axis coordinating movement control scheme for creeping motion. Finally, by using the simulated EAST nuclear fusion vessel, the principle prototype is tested, and the preliminary evaluation of its functional index and related technical parameters is carried out. The experimental results show that the principle prototype of the robot can achieve stable walking on the V-shaped circular slot at the bottom of the nuclear fusion vessel, and it has a certain ability to carry equipments. (C) 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
With more and more crowdsourcing geo-tagged field photos available online, they are becoming a potentially valuable source of information for environmental studies. However, the labelling and recognition of these photos are time-consuming. To utilise such information, a land cover type recognition model for field photos was proposed based on the deep learning technique. This model combines a pre-trained convolutional neural network (CNN) as the image feature extractor and the multinomial logistic regression model as the feature classifier. The pre-trained CNN model Inception-v3 was used in this study. The labelled field photos from the Global Geo-Referenced Field Photo Library (http://eomf.ou.eduiphotos) were chosen for model training and validation. The results indicated that our recognition model achieved an acceptable accuracy (48.40% for top-1 prediction and 76.24% for top-3 prediction) of land cover classification. With accurate self-assessment of confidence, the model can be applied to classify numerous online geo-tagged field photos for environmental information extraction. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
It is difficult to implement optimal control for a system whose model is unknown and operation environment is uncertain, such as the intelligent cruise control of vehicles. This article will address the problem from the perspective of reinforcement learning by learning the optimal policy from the state transition data. The model-free optimal control algorithm is employed to approximate the optimal control policy for the intelligent cruise control system, which considers the comfort performance and the safety performance comprehensively by setting up a total performance index. The algorithm is implemented by two multi-layer neural networks which are the critic network and the actor network. The critic and actor networks are employed to approximate the state-action value function and the control action, respectively. In addition, a data collecting strategy is proposed to obtain the state transition data distributed uniformly in the state action space from the running trajectory of the host car. The critic network and the action network are trained alternatively by the collected data until converging. The convergent action network is used to obtain the optimal control policy. At last, the policy is tested on a hardware-in-the-loop simulator built upon dSPACE by comparing with a linear quadratic regulator (LQR) controller and a proportion integration differentiation (PID) controller. Results show its excellent performance on both aspects of the safety and the comfort.
In this paper, a novel discrete-time deterministic Q-learning algorithm is developed. In each iteration of the developed Q-learning algorithm, the iterative Q function is updated for all the state and control spaces, instead of updating for a single state and a single control in traditional Q-learning algorithm. A new convergence criterion is established to guarantee that the iterative Q function converges to the optimum, where the convergence criterion of the learning rates for traditional Q-learning algorithms is simplified. During the convergence analysis, the upper and lower bounds of the iterative Q function are analyzed to obtain the convergence criterion, instead of analyzing the iterative Q function itself. For convenience of analysis, the convergence properties for undiscounted case of the deterministic Q-learning algorithm are first developed. Then, considering the discounted factor, the convergence criterion for the discounted case is established. Neural networks are used to approximate the iterative Q function and compute the iterative control law, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the deterministic Q-learning algorithm. Finally, simulation results and comparisons are given to illustrate the performance of the developed algorithm.
Event-triggered control has been an effective tool in dealing with problems with finite communication and computation resources. In this paper, we design an event-triggered control for nonlinear constrained-input continuous-time systems based on the optimal policy. Constraints on controls are handled using a bounded function. To learn the optimal solution with partially unknown dynamics, an online adaptive dynamic programming algorithm is proposed. The identifier network, the critic network, and the actor network are employed to approximate the unknown drift dynamics, the optimal value, and the optimal policy, respectively. The identifier is tuned based on online data, which further trains the critic and actor at triggering instants. A concurrent learning technique repeatedly uses past data to train the critic. Stability of the closed-loop system, and convergence of neural networks to the optimal solutions are proved by Lyapunov analysis. In the end, the algorithm is applied to the overhead crane system to observe the performance. The event-triggered optimal controller with constraints stabilizes the system and consumes much less sampling times.
The Triboelectric Nanogenerator (TENG), invented in 2012, is an emerging energy harvesting technology that efficiently converts ambient mechanical energy into electricity. Much work has been done to develop this device and improve its performance. However, no systematic report about its applications through large-scale publication and patent data analysis is available. In this study, we use "Tech Mining," a systematic analytical method based on structured texts applied to publication and patent abstract data, to analyze potential applications of TENGs. A series of applications from product scale to industry scale are identified. The findings show that when used as sensors, TENGs are mostly applicable in automation and energy-intensive industries such as automotive, medical or surgical devices, consumer electronics and household appliances. TENGs in the form of sensors can also be integrated with future-oriented and exponentially growing technologies such as robotics, drones, nanotechnology, and bioinformatics that will create enormous value for future economies. Moreover, applications of TENGs as sensors are also in line with current global trends of science and technology development, including the "Internet of Things," big data, clean energy, and smart cities. Combined with those technologies and industries, TENGs can help in tackling challenges of global warming, environmental pollution and security systems. We suggest the TENG research community to widen interdisciplinary collaboration, pursue connections with industry, and file more patents as R & D progresses. In addition, research limitations and future development directions of TENG are pointed out.
In this paper, we consider the distributed optimal coordination (DOC) problem for multi-agent systems" with the agents in the form of Euler-Lagrangian (EL) dynamics. We propose two different distributed protocols for the heterogeneous continuous-time EL agents to achieve the optimization task. By 11 constructing suitable Lyapunov functions, we prove the global convergence to the optimal coordination of the EL systems in the case with parametric uncertainties, and the global exponential convergence in the case without parametric uncertainties. Furthermore, we estimate the regret bound for an uncertain DOC problem with time-varying cost functions and inexact gradients. Finally, we provide a numerical example to validate the theoretical results. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In recent decades, saltwater intrusion over some low-lying coastal regions was deteriorated by rising sea-level and decreasing streamflow in the context of climate change. Though physically-based hydrodynamic models are the most detailed means to simulate salinity processes, they are commonly restricted by data insufficiency issues both in spatial resolution and temporal lasting. This motivates us to build a statistical model enable simulation and scenario analysis for coastal salinity change with limited observations. A Bayesian neural network (BNN) model is built hereby to simulate salinity. It offers more precise estimation compared with the conventional artificial neural network. Meanwhile, the model gives the uncertainty behaviors of the final salinity simulation which is not available for other methods. Future scenarios of salinity change are constructed and analyzed in different time periods on the basis of the validated BNN model. Results indicate that the water quality over lower Pearl River is degrading along with more significant uncertainties. Further analysis suggests that streamflow alteration has a more direct impact on salinity variations than the sea-level change does. The method allows a profound analysis of the potential influence on water quality degradation in coastal and low-lying regions in support of water management and adaptation toward global climate change.
This review examines the relevance of parameter identifiability for statistical models used in machine learning. In addition to defining main concepts, we address several issues of identifiability closely related to machine learning, showing the advantages and disadvantages of state-of- the-art research and demonstrating recent progress. First, we review criteria for determining the parameter structure of models from the literature. This has three related issues: parameter identifiability, parameter redundancy, and reparameterization. Second, we review the deep influence of identifiability on various aspects of machine learning from theoretical and application viewpoints. In addition to illustrating the utility and influence of identifiability, we emphasize the interplay among identifiability theory, machine learning, mathematical statistics, information theory, optimization theory, information geometry, Riemann geometry, symbolic computation, Bayesian inference, algebraic geometry, and others. Finally, we present a new perspective together with the associated challenges.
An active navigation of self-propelled miniaturized robot along the intestinal tract without injuring the soft tissue remains a challenge as yet. Particularly in this case an effective control of the interfacial friction and adhesion between the material used and the soft tissue is crucial. In the present study, we investigated the frictional and adhesive properties between polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS, microscopically patterned with micro-pillar arrays and non-patterned with a flat surface) and rabbit small intestinal tract using a universal material tester. The friction coefficient-time plot and adhesive force-time plot were recorded during the friction test (sliding speed: 0.25 mm/s; normal loading: 0.4 N) and adhesion test (preloading: 0.5 N; hoisting speed: 2.5 x 10(-3) mm/s), In addition, biocompatibility of the PDMS samples was characterized in terms of cell morphology (scanning electron microscope) and cell cytotoxicity (alamarBlue assay) using human vascular endothelial cells (HUVECs). The results demonstrated that the interfacial friction (0.27 vs 0.19) and adhesion (34.9 mN vs 26.7 mN) were greatly increased using microscopically patterned PDMS, in comparison with non-patterned PDMS. HUVECs adhered to and proliferated on non-patterned/microscopically patterned PDMS very well, with a relative cell viability of about 90% following seeding at 1 d, 3 d, and 5 d. The favorable enhancement of the frictional and adhesive properties, along with the excellent biocompatibility of the microscopically patterned PDMS, makes it a propitious choice for clinical application of self-propelled miniaturized robots. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To achieve automatic recommendation of privacy settings for image sharing, a new tool called iPrivacy (image privacy) is developed for releasing the burden from users on setting the privacy preferences when they share their images for special moments. Specifically, this paper consists of the following contributions: 1) massive social images and their privacy settings are leveraged to learn the object-privacy relatedness effectively and identify a set of privacy-sensitive object classes automatically; 2) a deep multi-task learning algorithm is developed to jointly learn more representative deep convolutional neural networks and more discriminative tree classifier, so that we can achieve fast and accurate detection of large numbers of privacy-sensitive object classes; 3) automatic recommendation of privacy settings for image sharing can be achieved by detecting the underlying privacy-sensitive objects from the images being shared, recognizing their classes, and identifying their privacy settings according to the object-privacy relatedness; and 4) one simple solution for image privacy protection is provided by blurring the privacy-sensitive objects automatically. We have conducted extensive experimental studies on real-world images and the results have demonstrated both the efficiency and effectiveness of our proposed approach.
In this paper, a decentralized fault tolerant control (DFTC) scheme is proposed for a class of large-scale nonlinear systems based on self-tuned local feedback gain against partial loss of actuator effectiveness (PLOAE). Consider a large-scale nonlinear system as a set of interconnected subsystems, a decentralized control method is proposed by employing two radial basis function neural networks (RBFNNs) for the fault-free system. Then, the unknown system is identified using RBFNNs. By establishing a decentralized observer, the derived self-tuned local feedback gain is placed before the proposed decentralized controller to guarantee control performance for the subsystem suffering from PLOAE fault. Finally, simulation examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the present DFTC scheme. The main contributions of this paper are: i) The unknown large-scale nonlinear system can be identified using locally measured states, so the actuator fault can be handled in its local subsystem. It implies that the performance degradation of the faulty subsystem cannot affect the fault-free subsystems. ii) The estimated effectiveness factor is placed before the proposed decentralized scheme. The fault tolerant control structure is simple since it does not need to be redesigned in the case of PLOAE.
An echo state network (ESN)-based Q-learning method is developed for optimal energy management of an office, where the solar energy is introduced as the renewable source, and a battery is installed with a control unit. The energy consumption in the office, also considered as the energy demand, is separated into those from sockets, lights and air-conditioners. First, ESNs, well known for their excellent modelling performance for time series, are employed to model the time series of the real-time electricity rate, renewable energy and energy demand as periodic functions. Second, given the periodic models of the electricity rate, renewable energy and energy demand, an ESN-based Q-learning method with the Q-function approximated by an ESN is developed and implemented to determine the optimal charging/discharging/idle strategies for the battery in the office, so that the total cost of electricity from the grid can be reduced. Finally, numerical analysis is conducted to illustrate the performance of the developed method.
In this article, a decentralized control strategy is presented for harmonic drive-based modular and reconfigurable robots with uncertain environment contact. Unlike conventional methods that rely on robot-environment contact model or force/torque sensing, this article addresses the problem of controlling modular and reconfigurable robots in contact with uncertain environment using only encoder data of each joint module. By employing a control-oriented harmonic drive model, the dynamic model of modular and reconfigurable robot is formulated as a synthesis of interconnected subsystems, in which the interconnected joint couplings are with small magnitudes. Based on the integral sliding mode control technique and the adaptive super-twisting algorithm, the decentralized controller is designed to compensate model uncertainty in which the up-bound is unknown. The stability of the modular and reconfigurable robot system is proved using Lyapunov theory. Finally, simulations are conducted for 2-degree-of-freedom modular and reconfigurable robots with different configurations under the situations of dynamic contact and collision to investigate the advantage of the proposed approach.
The cell surface hydrophobicity (CSH) is an assessable physicochemical property used to evaluate the microbial adhesion to the surface of biomaterials, which is an essential step in the microbial biofilm formation and pathogenesis. For the present in vitro fermentation experiment, the CSH of ruminal mixed microbes was considered, along with other data records of pH, ammonia-nitrogen concentration, and neutral detergent fibre digestibility, conditions of surface tension and specific surface area in two different time scales. A dataset of 170,707 perturbations of input variables, grouped into two blocks of data, was constructed. Next, Expected Measurement Moving Average - Machine Learning (EMMA-ML) models were developed in order to predict CSH after perturbations,of all input variables. EMMA-ML is a Perturbation Theory method that combines the ideas of Expected Measurement, Box Jenkins Operators/Moving Average, and Time Series Analysis. Seven regression methods have been tested: Multiple Linear regression, Generalized Linear Model with Stepwise Feature Selection, Partial Least Squares regression, Lasso regression, Elastic Net regression, Neural Networks regression, and Random Forests (RF). The best regression performance has been obtained with RF (EMMA-RF model) with an R-squared of 0.992. The model analysis has shown that CSH values were highly dependent on the in vitro fermentation parameters of detergent fibre digestibility, ammonia - nitrogen concentration, and the expected values of cell surface hydrophobicity in the first time scale. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Reservoirs are fundamental human-built infrastructures that collect, store, and deliver fresh surface water in a timely manner for many purposes. Efficient reservoir operation requires policy makers and operators to understand how reservoir inflows are changing under different hydrological and climatic conditions to enable forecast-informed operations. Over the last decade, the uses of Artificial Intelligence and Data Mining [AI & DM] techniques in assisting reservoir streamflow subseasonal to seasonal forecasts have been increasing. In this study, Random Forest [RF), Artificial Neural Network (ANN), and Support Vector Regression (SVR) are employed and compared with respect to their capabilities for predicting 1 month-ahead reservoir inflows for two headwater reservoirs in USA and China. Both current and lagged hydrological information and 17 known climate phenomenon indices, i.e., PDO and ENSO, etc., are selected as predictors for simulating reservoir inflows. Results show (1) three methods are capable of providing monthly reservoir inflows with satisfactory statistics; (2) the results obtained by Random Forest have the best statistical performances compared with the other two methods; (3) another advantage of Random Forest algorithm is its capability of interpreting raw model inputs; (4) climate phenomenon indices are useful in assisting monthly or seasonal forecasts of reservoir inflow; and (5) different climate conditions are autocorrelated with up to several months, and the climatic information and their lags are cross correlated with local hydrological conditions in our case studies.
Crowdsourcing systems allocate tasks to a group of workers over the Internet, which have become an effective paradigm for human-powered problem solving, such as image classification, optical character recognition, and proofreading. In this paper, we focus on incentivizing crowd workers to label a set of multi-class labeling tasks under strict budget constraint. We properly profile the tasks' difficulty levels and workers' quality in crowdsourcing systems, where the collected labels are aggregated with sequential Bayesian approach. To stimulate workers to undertake crowd labeling tasks, the interaction between workers and the platform is modeled as a reverse auction. We reveal that the platform utility maximization could be intractable, for which an incentive mechanism that determines the winning bid and payments with polynomial-time computation complexity is developed. Moreover, we theoretically prove that our mechanism is truthful, individually rational, and budget feasible. Through extensive simulations, we demonstrate that our mechanism utilizes budget efficiently to achieve high platform utility with polynomial computation complexity.
Lung nodules are small, round, or oval-shaped masses of tissue in the lung region. Early diagnosis and treatment of lung nodules can significantly improve the quality of patients' lives. Because of their small size and the interlaced nature of chest anatomy, detection of lung nodules using different medical imaging techniques becomes challenging. Recently, several methods for computer aided diagnosis (CAD) were proposed to improve the detection of lung nodules with good performances. However, the current methods are unable to achieve high sensitivity and high specificity. In this paper, we propose using deep feature fusion from the non-medical training and hand-crafted features to reduce the false positive results. Based on our experimentation of the public dataset, our results show that, the deep fusion feature can achieve promising results in terms of sensitivity and specificity (69.3% and 96.2%) at 1.19 false positive per image, which is better than the single hand-crafted features (62% and 95.4%) at 1.45 false positive per image. As it stands, fusion features that were used to classify our candidate nodules have resulted in a more promising outcome as compared to the single features from deep learning features and the hand-crafted features. This will improve the current CAD method based on the use of deep feature fusion to more effectively diagnose the presence of lung nodules. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We reported a two dimensional self-powered proximity sensor based on nanoparticles polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) electrostatic induction electret using separation electrode. The structural pattern was carefully designed for identifying the specific position on the horizontal plane. When the separation electrode is motioned above the sensor, the induced charges on electrodes will change based on the coupling effect of the electret film. Experiment results showed that the proximity sensor works well with the velocity 0.05 m/s. We also found that the prototype have a good stability even with a huge uncontrolled perturbation on the Y direction. Our work could be a significant step forward in self-powered proximity sensing technology, with a wide range of potential applications in touchpad, robotics, and safety-monitoring device. (C) 2017 Author(s). All article content, except where otherwise noted, is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
In the past few years, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have exhibited great potential in the field of image classification. In this paper, we present a novel strategy named cross-level to improve the existing networks' architecture in which different levels of feature representation in a network are merely connected in series. The basic idea of cross-level is to establish a convolutional layer between two nonadjacent levels, aiming to extract more sufficient features with multiple scales at each feature representation level. The proposed cross-level strategy can be naturally integrated into an existing network without any change on its original architecture, which makes it very practical and convenient. Four popular convolutional networks for image classification are employed to illustrate its implementation in detail. Experimental results on the dataset adopted by the ImageNet Large-Scale Visual Recognition Challenge (ILSVRC) verify the effectiveness of the cross-level strategy on image classification. Furthermore, a new convolutional network with cross-level architecture is presented to demonstrate the potential of the proposed strategy in future network design.
Triboelectric nanogenerators (TENGs) can be applied for the next generation of artificial intelligent products, where skin-like tactile sensing advances the ability of robotics to feel and interpret environment. In this paper, a flexible and thin tactile sensor was developed on the basis of dual-mode TENGs. The effective transduction of touch and pressure stimulus into independent and interpretable electrical signals permits the instantaneous sensing of location and pressure with a plane resolution of 2 mm, a high-pressure sensing sensitivity up to 28 mV.N-1, and a linear pressure detection ranging from 40 to 140 N. Interestingly, this self powered dual-mode sensor can even interpret contact and hardness of objects by analyzing the shape of the current peak, which makes this low-cost TENG-based sensor promising for applications in touch screens, electronic skins, healthcare, and environmental survey.
One of the key challenges for question answering is to bridge the lexical gap between questions and answers because there may not be any matching word between them. Machine translation models have been shown to boost the performance of solving the lexical gap problem between question-answer pairs. In this paper, we introduce an attention-based deep learning model to address the answer selection task for question answering. The proposed model employs a bidirectional long short-term memory (LSTM) encoder-decoder, which has been demonstrated to be effective on machine translation tasks to bridge the lexical gap between questions and answers. Our model also uses a step attention mechanism which allows the question to focus on a certain part of the candidate answer. Finally, we evaluate our model using a benchmark dataset and the results show that our approach outperforms the existing approaches. Integrating our model significantly improves the performance of our question answering system in the TREC 2015 LiveQA task.
We study the question of building regional covariance descriptors (RCDs) for vehicle detection from highresolution satellite images. A unified way is proposed to build RCD features by constant convolutional kernels in the forms of 2-D masks. Two novel formulas are designed to construct different RCD types based upon one or two convolutional masks, obtaining ten novel RCD features by four simple constant convolutional masks. Experiments show that such convolutional-mask- based RCDs outperform the previous image-derivative-based RCDs, the popular local binary patterns (LBPs), the histogram of oriented gradients (HOGs), and LBP+HOG. Furthermore, feeding to nonlinear support vector machines (SVMs) of two kernel types [L-1 kernel and radial basis function (RBF)], these RCDs outperform four known deep convolutional neural networks: AlexNet, GoogLeNet, CaffeNet, and LeNet, as well as their fine-tuned models by their well-trained weights of imageNet classification. Among three popular classic classifiers we have tested in the experiments, nonlinear SVMs outperform BP and Adaboost obviously, and L-1 kernel exceeds RBF slightly.
Mineral prospectivity mapping (MPM) is a multi-step process that ranks promising target areas for further exploration. Fuzzy logic and fuzzy analytical hierarchy process (AHP) are knowledge-driven MPM approaches. In this study, both approaches were used for data processing, based on which MPM was performed for porphyry and hydrothermal vein copper deposits in the Dananhu-Tousuquan island arc, Xinjiang. The results of the two methods were then compared. The two methods combined expert experience and the Studentized contrast (S(C)) values of the weights-of-evidence approach to calculate the weights of 15 layers, and these layers were then integrated by the gamma operator (gamma). Through prediction-area (P-A) plot analysis, the optimal gamma for fuzzy logic and fuzzy AHP was determined as 0.95 and 0.93, respectively. The thresholds corresponding to different levels of metallogenic probability were defined via concentration-area (C-A) fractal analysis. The prediction performances of the two methods were compared on this basis. The results showed that in MPM based on fuzzy logic, the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was 0.806 and 81.48% of the known deposits were predicted, whereas in MPM based on fuzzy AHP, the area under the ROC curve was 0.862 and 92.59% of the known deposits were predicted. Therefore, prediction based on fuzzy AHP is more accurate and can provide directions for future prospecting. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Saccade and smooth pursuit are two important functions of human eye. In order to enable bionic eye to imitate the two functions, a control method that implements saccade and smooth pursuit based on the three-dimensional coordinates of target is proposed. An optimal observation position is defined for bionic eye based on three-dimensional coordinates. A kind of motion planning method with high accuracy is developed. The motion parameters of stepper motor consisting of angle acceleration and turning time are computed according to the position deviation, the target's angular velocity and the stepper motor's current angular velocity in motion planning The motors are controlled with the motion parameters moving to given position with desired angular velocity in schedule time. The experimental results show that the bionic eye can move to optimal observation positions in 0.6 s from initial location and the accuracy of 3D coordinates is improved. In addition, the bionic eye can track a target within the error of less than 20 pixels based on three-dimensional coordinates. It is verified that saccade and smooth pursuit of bionic eye based on three-dimensional coordinates are feasible.
Bioresponsive hydrogels can respond to various biological stimuli by a macroscopic change of physical state or by converting biochemical inputs into biological or mechanical outputs. These materials are playing an increasingly important role in a wide variety of applications, especially in the biological and biomedical fields. However, the design and engineering of intriguing bioresponsive materials with adequate biocompatibility and biodegradability have proven to be a great challenge. DNA, on the other hand, possesses many unique and fascinating properties, including its indispensable genetic function, broad biocompatibility, precise molecular recognition capability, tunable multi functionality, and convenient programmability. Therefore, DNA has provided crucial prerequisites for the exploration of novel bioresponsive hydrogels and has since become an ideal building block for the construction of novel materials. In this Account, we describe our efforts over more than a decade to develop DNA based materials including bioresponsive hydrogels. These DNA hydrogels were created through either chemical cross-linking or physical entanglement among DNA chains. We further divided them into two categories: pure DNA-based and hybrid DNA based hydrogels. For the pure DNA-based hydrogels, we developed the first bulk DNA hydrogel entirely from branched DNA by using enzymatic ligation. Certain drugs were encapsulated in such hydrogels in situ and released in a controllable manner under the stimulation of environmental factors such as nucleases and/or changes in ionic strength. Furthermore, we prepared a protein producing hydrogel (termed a "P-gel") by ligating X-shaped DNA (X-DNA) and linear plasmids. Following the central dogma of molecular biology, this hydrogel responded to enzymes and substrate and converted them into proteins. This was the first example showing that a hydrogel could be employed to produce proteins without the involvement of live cells. This might also be the first attempt to create cell-like hydrogels that will be ultimately bioresponsive. In addition, we also constructed a DNA physical hydrogel via entanglement of DNA chains elongated by a special polymerase: Phi29. This hydrogel (termed a "meta-hydrogel") exhibited a "meta" property: freely reversible change between liquidlike and solidlike states through stimulation by water molecules. Besides these pure DNA-based hydrogels, we also created a hybrid DNA-based hydrogel: a DNA clay hybrid hydrogel utilizing electrostatic interactions between DNA and clay nanocrystals. We discovered a synergistic responsiveness in biochemical reaction in this hydrogel, suggesting that a DNA clay hydrogel might be the environment for the origination of life and that DNA and clay might have been coevolving during early evolution. In summary, DNA links the nonbiological world with biological processes by virtue of its bioresponsiveness. We envision that bioresponsive DNA hydrogels will play an irreplaceable part in the development of future evolvable materials such as soft robots and artificial cells.
The process of modernizing smart grid prominently increases the complexity and uncertainty in scheduling and operation of power systems, and, in order to develop a more reliable, flexible, efficient and resilient grid, electrical load forecasting is not only an important key but is still a difficult and challenging task as well. In this paper, a short-term electrical load forecasting model, with a unit for feature learning named Pyramid System and recurrent neural networks, has been developed and it can effectively promote the stability and security of the power grid. Nine types of methods for feature learning are compared in this work to select the best one for learning target, and two criteria have been employed to evaluate the accuracy of the prediction intervals. Furthermore, an electrical load forecasting method based on recurrent neural networks has been formed to achieve the relational diagram of historical data, and, to be specific, the proposed techniques are applied to electrical load forecasting using the data collected from New South Wales, Australia. The simulation results show that the proposed hybrid models can not only satisfactorily approximate the actual value but they are also able to be effective tools in the planning of smart grids.
Robust face representation is imperative to highly accurate face recognition. In this work, we propose an open source face recognition method with deep representation named as VIPLFaceNet, which is a 10-layer deep convolutional neural network with seven convolutional layers and three fully-connected layers. Compared with the well-known AlexNet, our VIPLFaceNet takes only 20% training time and 60% testing time, but achieves 40% drop in error rate on the real-world face recognition benchmark LFW. Our VIPLFaceNet achieves 98.60% mean accuracy on LFW using one single network. An open-source C++ SDK based on VIPLFaceNet is released under BSD license. The SDK takes about 150ms to process one face image in a single thread on an i7 desktop CPU. VIPLFaceNet provides a state-of-the-art start point for both academic and industrial face recognition applications.
Studies in mice using resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) have provided opportunities to investigate the effects of pharmacological manipulations on brain function and map the phenotypes of mouse models of human brain disorders. Mouse rs-fMRI is typically performed under anaesthesia, which induces both regional suppression of brain activity and disruption of large-scale neural networks. Previous comparative studies using rodents investigating various drug effects on long-distance functional connectivity (FC) have reported agent-specific FC patterns, however, effects of regional suppression are sparsely explored. Here we examined changes in regional connectivity under six different anaesthesia conditions using mouse rsfMRI with the goal of refining the framework of understanding the brain activation under anaesthesia at a local level. Regional homogeneity (ReHo) was used to map local synchronization in the brain, followed by analysis of several brain areas based on ReHo maps. The results revealed high local coherence in most brain areas. The primary somatosensory cortex and caudate-putamen showed agent-specific properties. Lower local coherence in the cingulate cortex was observed under medetomidine, particularly when compared to the combination of medetomidine and isoflurane. The thalamus was associated with retained local coherence across anaesthetic levels and multiple nuclei. These results show that anaesthesia induced by the investigated anaesthetics through different molecular targets promote agent-specific regional connectivity. In addition, ReHo is a data-driven method with minimum user interaction, easy to use and fast to compute. Given that examination of the brain at a local level is widely applied in human rs-fMRI studies, our results show its sensitivity to extract information on varied neuronal activity under six different regimens relevant to mouse functional imaging. These results, therefore, will inform future rs-fMRI studies on mice and the type of anaesthetic agent used, and will help to bridge observations between this burgeoning research field and ongoing human research across analytical scales.
Most existing tracking methods are direct trackers, which directly exploit foreground or/and background information for object appearance modeling and decide whether an image patch is target object or not. As a result, these trackers cannot perform well when target appearance changes heavily and becomes different from its model. To deal with this issue, we propose a novel relative tracker, which can effectively exploit the relative relationship among image patches from both foreground and background for object appearance modeling. Different from direct trackers, the proposed relative tracker is robust to localize target object by use of the best image patch with the highest relative score to the target appearance model. To model relative relationship among large-scale image patch pairs, we propose a novel and effective deep relative learning algorithm through the convolutional neural network. We test the proposed approach on challenging sequences involving heavy occlusion, drastic illumination changes, and large pose variations. Experimental results show that our method consistently outperforms the state-of-theart trackers due to the powerful capacity of the proposed deep relative model.
Traditional feature encoding scheme (e.g., Fisher vector) with local descriptors (e.g., SIFT) and recent convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are two classes of successful methods for image recognition. In this paper, we propose a hybrid representation, which leverages the discriminative capacity of CNNs and the simplicity of descriptor encoding schema for image recognition, with a focus on scene recognition. To this end, we make three main contributions from the following aspects. First, we propose a patch-level and end-to-end architecture to model the appearance of local patches, called PatchNet. PatchNet is essentially a customized network trained in a weakly supervised manner, which uses the image-level supervision to guide the patch-level feature extraction. Second, we present a hybrid visual representation, called VSAD, by utilizing the robust feature representations of PatchNet to describe local patches and exploiting the semantic probabilities of PatchNet to aggregate these local patches into a global representation. Third, based on the proposed VSAD representation, we propose a new state-of-the-art scene recognition approach, which achieves an excellent performance on two standard benchmarks: MIT Indoor67 (86.2%) and SUN397 (73.0%).
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have made remarkable progress on scene recognition, partially due to these recent large-scale scene datasets, such as the Places and Places2. Scene categories are often defined by multi-level information, including local objects, global layout, and background environment, thus leading to large intra-class variations. In addition, with the increasing number of scene categories, label ambiguity has become another crucial issue in large-scale classification. This paper focuses on large-scale scene recognition and makes two major contributions to tackle these issues. First, we propose a multi-resolution CNN architecture that captures visual content and structure at multiple levels. The multi-resolution CNNs are composed of coarse resolution CNNs and fine resolution CNNs, which are complementary to each other. Second, we design two knowledge guided disambiguation techniques to deal with the problem of label ambiguity: 1) we exploit the knowledge from the confusion matrix computed on validation data to merge ambiguous classes into a super category and 2) we utilize the knowledge of extra networks to produce a soft label for each image. Then, the super categories or soft labels are employed to guide CNN training on the Places2. We conduct extensive experiments on three large-scale image datasets (ImageNet, Places, and Places2), demonstrating the effectiveness of our approach. Furthermore, our method takes part in two major scene recognition challenges, and achieves the second place at the Places2 challenge in ILSVRC 2015, and the first place at the LSUN challenge in CVPR 2016. Finally, we directly test the learned representations on other scene benchmarks, and obtain the new state-of-the-art results on the MIT Indoor67 (86.7%) and SUN397 (72.0%). We release the code and models at https://github.com/wanglimin/MRCNN-Scene-Recognition.
Multilevel spin toque transfer RAM (STT-RAM) is a suitable storage device for energy-efficient neural network accelerators (NNAs), which relies on large-capacity on-chip memory to support brain-inspired large-scale learning models from conventional artificial neural networks to current popular deep convolutional neural networks. In this paper, we investigate the application of multilevel STT-RAM to general-purpose NNAs. First, the error-resilience feature of neural networks is leveraged to tolerate the read/write reliability issue in multilevel cell STT-RAM using approximate computing. The induced read/write failures at the expense of higher storage density can be effectively masked by a wide spectrum of NN applications with intrinsic forgiveness. Second, we present a precision-tunable STT-RAM buffer for the popular general-purpose NNA. The targeted STT-RAM memory design is able to transform between multiple working modes and adaptable to meet the varying quality constraint of approximate applications. Lastly, the reconfigurable STT-RAM buffer not only enables precision scaling in NNA but also provides adaptiveness to the demand for different learning models with distinct working-set sizes. Particularly, we demonstrate the concept of capacity/precision-tunable STT-RAM memory with the emerging reconfigurable deep NNA and elaborate on the data mapping and storage mode switching policy in STT-RAM memory to achieve the best energy efficiency of approximate computing.
Topography-soil relationships usually vary with climate, vegetation type, degree of human disturbance, type of parent material, and the scale being studied. In this paper, we studied the topography-soil relationship in a hilly forest in subtropical China.
In January 2013, the real-time hourly average concentrations of six pollutants (CO, NO2, O-3, PM10, PM2.5 and SO2) based on data from air quality monitoring stations in major Chinese cities were released to the public. That report provided a good opportunity to publicise nationwide temporal and spatial pollution characteristics. Although several studies systematically investigated the temporal and spatial trends of pollutant concentrations, the relation between air pollution and multi-scale meteorological conditions and their spatial variations on a nationwide scale remain unclear. This study analysed the air pollution characteristics and their relation to multi-scale meteorological conditions during 2014-2015 in 31 provincial capital cities in China. The annual average concentrations of six pollutants for 31 provincial capital cities were 1.2 mg m(-3), 42.4 mu g m(-3), 49.0 mu g m(-3), 109.8 mu g m(-3), 63.7 mu g m(-3), and 32.6 mu g m(-3) in 2014. The annual average concentrations decreased 5.3%, 4.9%, 11.4%, 12.0% and 21.5% for CO, NO2, PM10, PM2.5 and SO2, respectively, but increased 7.4% for O-3 in 2015. The highest rate of a major pollutant over China was PM2.5 followed by PM10, O-3, NO2, SO2 and CO. Meteorological conditions were the primary factor determining day-to-day variations in pollutant concentrations, explaining more than 70% of the variance of daily average pollutant concentrations over China. Meteorological conditions in 2015 were more adverse for pollutant dispersion than in 2014, indicating that the improvement in air quality was caused by emission controls. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Context Recent conceptual developments in ecosystem services research have revealed the need to elucidate the complex and unintended relationships between humans and the environment if we are to better understand and manage ecosystem services in practice.
Short text clustering is a challenging problem due to its sparseness of text representation. Herewepropose a flexible Self-Taught Convolutional neural network framework for Short Text Clustering (dubbed STC2), which can flexibly and successfully incorporate more useful semantic features and learn non-biased deep text representation in an unsupervised manner. In our framework, the original raw text features are firstly embedded into compact binary codes by using one existing unsupervised dimensionality reduction method. Then, word embeddings are explored and fed into convolutional neural networks to learn deep feature representations, meanwhile the output units are used to fit the pre-trained binary codes in the training process. Finally, we get the optimal clusters by employing K-means to cluster the learned representations. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework is effective, flexible and outperform several popular clustering methods when tested on three public short text datasets. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper investigates the design of information theoretic-based fitness function for embedded evolutionary robotics (ERs). Such fitness relies on the assumption that interesting behaviors result in a high sensorimotor (individual) diversity. The current simple entropy as a diversity metric only considers individuals' differerence but ignores their spatial relationship. The sensorimotor stream can be analyzed to construct a simple directed graph that has unique entry and exit nodes. This paper proposes a hierarchic entropy as a diversity metric by incorporating the simple entropy and the spatial relationship based graph entropy. Maximizing the hierarchic entropy, achieved by on-board evolutionary algorithm, thus defines a self-driven fitness function enforcing the controller visiting diverse sensorimotor states. The proposed algorithm achieves better performance than the published results of other entropy-based methods only relying on simple entropy, without requiring additional computational resources.
Writer identification is an important topic for pattern recognition and artificial intelligence. Traditional methods rely heavily on sophisticated hand-crafted features to represent the characteristics of different writers. In this paper, we propose an end-to-end framework for online text-independent writer identification by using a recurrent neural network (RNN). Specifically, the handwriting data of a particular writer are represented by a set of random hybrid strokes (RHSs). Each RHS is a randomly sampled short sequence representing pen tip movements (xy-coordinates) and pen-down or pen-up states. RHS is independent of the content and language involved in handwriting; therefore, writer identification at the RHS level is more general and convenient than the character level or the word level, which also requires character/word segmentation. The RNN model with bidirectional long short-term memory is used to encode each RHS into a fixed-length vector for final classification. All the RHSs of a writer are classified independently, and then, the posterior probabilities are averaged to make the final decision. The proposed framework is end-to-end and does not require any domain knowledge for handwriting data analysis. Experiments on both English (133 writers) and Chinese (186 writers) databases verify the advantages of our method compared with other state-of-the-art approaches.
Deep Neural Networks for image/video classification have obtained much success in various computer vision applications. Existing deep learning algorithms are widely used on RGB images or video data. Meanwhile, with the development of low-cost RGB-D sensors (such as Microsoft Kinect and Xtion Pro-Live), high-quality RGB-D data can be easily acquired and used to enhance computer vision algorithms [14]. It would be interesting to investigate how deep learning can be employed for extracting and fusing features from RGB-D data. In this paper, after briefly reviewing the basic concepts of RGB-D information and four prevalent deep learning models (i.e., Deep Belief Networks (DBNs), Stacked Denoising Auto-Encoders (SDAE), Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) Neural Networks), we conduct extensive experiments on five popular RGB-D datasets including three image datasets and two video datasets. We then present a detailed analysis about the comparison between the learned feature representations from the four deep learning models. In addition, a few suggestions on how to adjust hyper parameters for learning deep neural networks are made in this paper. According to the extensive experimental results, we believe that this evaluation will provide insights and a deeper understanding of different deep learning algorithms for RGB-D feature extraction and fusion. (C) 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In recent years, deep learning has attracted an increasing amount of attention in machine learning and artificial intelligence areas. Currently, many deep learning network-related architectures such as deep neural networks (DNNs), convolutional neural network (CNN), wavelet scattering network (ScatNet) and principal component analysis network (PCANet) have been proposed. The most effective network is PCANet, which has achieved promising performance in image classification, such as for face, object and handwritten digit recognition. PCANet can only handle data that are represented by single-view features. In this paper, we present a canonical correlation analysis network (CCANet) to address image classification, in which images are represented by two-view features. The CCANet learns two-view multistage filter banks by a canonical correlation analysis (CCA) method and constructs a cascaded convolutional deep network. Then, we incorporate filters with binaryzation and block-wise histogram processes to form the final depth structure. In addition, we introduce a variation of CCANet dubbed RandNet-2-in which the filter banks are randomly generated. Extensive experiments are conducted using the ETH-80, Yale-B, and USPS databases for object classification, face classification and handwritten digits classification, respectively. The experimental results demonstrate that the CCANet algorithm is more effective than PCANet, RandNet-1 and RandNet-2. (C) 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Semantic video segmentation is a challenging task of fine-grained semantic understanding of video data. In this paper, we present a jointly trained deep learning framework to make the best use of spatial and temporal information for semantic video segmentation. Along the spatial dimension, a hierarchically supervised deconvolutional neural network (HDCNN) is proposed to conduct pixel-wise semantic interpretation for single video frames. HDCNN is constructed with convolutional layers in VGG-net and their mirrored deconvolutional structure, where all fully connected layers are removed. And hierarchical classification layers are added to multi scale deconvolutional features to introduce more contextual information for pixel-wise semantic interpretation. Besides, a coarse-to-fine training strategy is adopted to enhance the performance of foreground object segmentation in videos. Along the temporal dimension, we introduce Transition Layers upon the structure of HDCNN to make the pixel-wise label prediction consist with adjacent, pixels across space and time domains. The learning process of the Transition Layers can be implemented as a set of extra convolutional calculations connected with HDCNN. These two parts are jointly trained as a unified deep network in our approach. Thorough evaluations are performed on two challenging video datasets, i.e., CamVid and GATECH. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art performance on both of the two datasets.
The basal ganglia neural circuit plays an important role in motor control. Despite the significant efforts, the understanding of the principles and underlying mechanisms of this modulatory circuit and the emergence of abnormal synchronized oscillations in movement disorders is still challenging. Dopamine loss has been proved to be responsible for Parkinson's disease. We quantitatively described the dynamics of the basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical circuit in Parkinson's disease in terms of the emergence of both abnormal firing rates and firing patterns in the circuit. We developed a potential landscape and flux framework for exploring the modulatory circuit. The driving force of the circuit can be decomposed into a gradient of the potential, which is associated with the steady-state probability distributions, and the curl probability flux term. We uncovered the underlying potential landscape as a Mexican hat-shape closed ring valley where abnormal oscillations emerge due to dopamine depletion. We quantified the global stability of the network through the topography of the landscape in terms of the barrier height, which is defined as the potential difference between the maximum potential inside the ring and the minimum potential along the ring. Both a higher barrier and a larger flux originated from detailed balance breaking result in more stable oscillations. Meanwhile, more energy is consumed to support the increasing flux. Global sensitivity analysis on the landscape topography and flux indicates how changes in underlying neural network regulatory wirings and external inputs influence the dynamics of the system. We validated two of the main hypotheses(direct inhibition hypothesis and output activation hypothesis) on the therapeutic mechanism of deep brain stimulation (DBS). We found GPe appears to be another effective stimulated target for DBS besides GPi and STN. Our approach provides a general way to quantitatively explore neural networks and may help for uncovering more efficacious therapies for movement disorders.
Wound area changes over multiple weeks are highly predictive of the wound healing process. A big data eHealth system would be very helpful in evaluating these changes. We usually analyze images of the wound bed for diagnosing injury. Unfortunately, accurate measurements of wound region changes from images are difficult. Many factors affect the quality of images, such as intensity inhomogeneity and color distortion. To this end, we propose a fast level set model-based method for intensity inhomogeneity correction and a spectral properties-based color correction method to overcome these obstacles. State-of-the-art level set methods can segment objects well. However, such methods are time-consuming and inefficient. In contrast to conventional approaches, the proposed model integrates a new signed energy force function that can detect contours at weak or blurred edges efficiently. It ensures the smoothness of the level set function and reduces the computational complexity of re-initialization. To increase the speed of the algorithm further, we also include an additive operator-splitting algorithm in our fast level set model. In addition, we consider using a camera, lighting, and spectral properties to recover the actual color. Numerical synthetic and real-world images demonstrate the advantages of the proposed method over state-of-the-art methods. Experimental results also show that the proposed model is at least twice as fast as methods used widely. Copyright (C) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
An effective indexing scheme for clusters that enables fast structure comparison and congruence check is desperately desirable in the field of mathematics, artificial intelligence, materials science, etc. Here we introduce the concept of minimum vertex-type sequence for the indexing of clusters on square lattice, which contains a series of integers each labeling the vertex type of an atom. The minimum vertex-type sequence is orientation independent, and it builds a one-to-one correspondence with the cluster. By using minimum vertex-type sequence for structural comparison and congruence check, only one type of data is involved, and the largest amount of data to be compared is n pairs, n is the cluster size. In comparison with traditional coordinate-based methods and distance-matrix methods, the minimum vertex-type sequence indexing scheme has many other remarkable advantages. Furthermore, this indexing scheme can be easily generalized to clusters on other high-symmetry lattices. Our work can facilitate cluster indexing and searching in various situations, it may inspire the search of other practical indexing schemes for handling clusters of large sizes.
Recently, Deep Convolution Neural Networks (DCNNs) have shown outstanding performance in face recognition. However, the supervised training process of DCNN requires a large number of labeled samples which are expensive and time consuming to collect. In this paper, we propose five data augmentation methods dedicated to face images, including landmark perturbation and four synthesis methods (hairstyles, glasses, poses, illuminations). The proposed methods effectively enlarge the training dataset, which alleviates the impacts of misalignment, pose variance, illumination changes and partial occlusions, as well as the overfitting during training. The performance of each data augmentation method is tested on the Multi-PIE database. Furthermore, comparison of these methods are conducted on LFW, YTF and IJB-A databases. Experimental results show that our proposed methods can greatly improve the face recognition performance.
Predicting peptide binding affinity with human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is a crucial step in developing powerful antitumor vaccine for cancer immunotherapy. Currently available methods work quite well in predicting peptide binding affinity with HLA alleles such as HLA-A*0201, HLA-A*0101, and HLA-B*0702 in terms of sensitivity and specificity. However, quite a few types of HLA alleles that are present in the majority of human populations including HLA-A*0202, HLA-A*0203, HLA-A*6802, HLA-B*5101, HLA-B*5301, HLA-B*5401, and HLA-B*5701 still cannot be predicted with satisfactory accuracy using currently available methods. Furthermore, currently the most popularly used methods for predicting peptide binding affinity are inefficient in identifying neoantigens from a large quantity of whole genome and transcriptome sequencing data. Here we present a Position Specific Scoring Matrix (PSSM)-based software called PSSMHCpan to accurately and efficiently predict peptide binding affinity with a broad coverage of HLA class I alleles. We evaluated the performance of PSSMHCpan by analyzing 10-fold cross-validation on a training database containing 87 HLA alleles and obtained an average area under receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 0.94 and accuracy (ACC) of 0.85. In an independent dataset (Peptide Database of Cancer Immunity) evaluation, PSSMHCpan is substantially better than the popularly used NetMHC-4.0, NetMHCpan-3.0, PickPocket, Nebula, and SMM with a sensitivity of 0.90, as compared to 0.74, 0.81, 0.77, 0.24, and 0.79. In addition, PSSMHCpan is more than 197 times faster than NetMHC-4.0, NetMHCpan-3.0, PickPocket, sNebula, and SMM when predicting neoantigens from 661 263 peptides from a breast tumor sample. Finally, we built a neoantigen prediction pipeline and identified 117 017 neoantigens from 467 cancer samples of various cancers from TCGA. PSSMHCpan is superior to the currently available methods in predicting peptide binding affinity with a broad coverage of HLA class I alleles.
Background: Residues in a protein might be buried inside or exposed to the solvent surrounding the protein. The buried residues usually form hydrophobic cores to maintain the structural integrity of proteins while the exposed residues are tightly related to protein functions. Thus, the accurate prediction of solvent accessibility of residues will greatly facilitate our understanding of both structure and functionalities of proteins. Most of the state-of-the-art prediction approaches consider the burial state of each residue independently, thus neglecting the correlations among residues.
Volumetric path tracing relies on importance sampling to stochastically construct light transport paths from an emitter to the sensor. Existing techniques incrementally sample path vertices or segments with respect to the local scattering property incorporating the geometry and scattering terms. Thus the joint probability density for drawing a path results in a product of the conditional densities each for a local sampling decision. We present a joint path sampling technique that additionally accounts for the spatially varying visibility due to transmittance and occlusion along a double scattering path. The directional density is formulated as a Gaussian mixture model being fitted to single scattered radiance by the online expectation maximization algorithm. It is first trained with samples oblivious to the visibility, then incrementally consumes an arbitrary number of samples being drawn from the actual scene. The resulting density in turn guides the directional sampling decision for both isotropic and anisotropic scattering. We demonstrate the benefit of our approach by integrating it into the unidirectional path tracing algorithm. The image noise is effectively reduced, even while rendering the heterogeneous participating media in the presence of complex opaque surfaces.
Feature representation is a classic problem in the machine learning community due to the fact that different representations can entangle and hide more or less the different explanatory factors of variation behind the raw data. Especially for scene classification, its performance generally depends on the discriminative power of feature representation. Recently, unsupervised feature learning attracts tremendous attention because of its ability to learn feature representation automatically. However, reliable performance of feature representations by unsupervised learning always requires a large number of features and complex framework of mid-level feature representation. To alleviate such drawbacks, this paper presents a new framework of mid-level feature representation, which does not need learnmany convolutional features during the unsupervised feature learning process, and has few parameter settings. In detail, the unsupervised feature learning method, sparse autoencoder, is employed to learn relatively small number of convolutional features from input dataset, and then extended features are extracted from the learned features by a multiple normalized difference features extraction method to compose a derivative feature set. At mid-level feature representation stage, in order to avoid poor performance of standard pooling technology in solving problems brought by rotation and translation of scene images, global feature descriptors (histogram moments, mean, variance, standard deviation) are utilized to build mid-level feature representations of images. For validation and comparison purposes, the proposed approach is evaluated via experiments with two challenging high-resolution remote sensing datasets. The results demonstrate that the approach is effective, and shows strong performance for remotely sensed scene classification.
This study presents two optimization techniques: genetic algorithm (GA) and particle swarm optimization (PSO), to improve the efficiency of backpropagation (BP) neural network model for predicting liquefaction susceptibility of soil. A detailed parametric study is designed and performed to find the optimal parameters of GA and PSO, respectively. The database used in this study includes 166 CPT-based field observations from more than eight major earthquakes between 1964 and 1983. Six factors including cone resistance, total vertical stress, effective vertical stress, depth of penetration, normalized peak horizontal acceleration at ground surface and earthquake magnitude are selected as the evaluating indices. The predictions from the PSO-BP model were compared with those from two models: BP and GA-BP. The study concluded that the proposed PSO-BP model improves the classification accuracy and is a feasible method in predicting soil liquefaction.
Linear tool paths, or G01 codes, are the most widely used form of tool paths for NC machining. Because of the inborn tangent discontinuity, it is difficult to realize the machining with both high speed and high quality along the G01 codes. To solve this problem, a local corner transition algorithm combined with global motion planning strategy is proposed. Very different from recent corner transition studies in which the transition path and feedrate are planned separately, this work uses a one-step strategy to generate the transition trajectory. Besides, the more reasonable axial acceleration limits are considered in this algorithm, since the acceleration performances of individual axes in conventional machine tools may be significantly different. To enhance the machining efficiency, a modified corner transition strategy with more free transition space is proposed. The feasibility and efficiency of the proposed algorithm are verified by simulations and experiments.
Stacking Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBM) to create deep networks, such as Deep Belief Networks( DBN) and Deep Boltzmann Machines (DBM), has become one of the most important research fields indeep learning. DBM and DBN provide state-of-the-art results in many fields such as image recognition, but they don't show better learning abilities than RBM when dealing with data containing irrelevant patterns. Point-wise Gated Restricted Boltzmann Machines (pgRBM) can effectively find the task-relevant patterns from data containing irrelevant patterns and thus achieve satisfied classification results. For the limitations of the DBN and the DBM in the processing of data containing irrelevant patterns, we introduce the pgRBM into the DBN and the DBM and present Point-wise Gated Deep Belief Networks (pgDBN) and Pointwise Gated Deep Boltzmann Machines (pgDBM). The pgDBN and the pgDBM both utilize the pgRBM instead of the RBM to pre-train the weights connecting the networks' the visible layer and the hidden layer, and apply the pgRBM learning task-relevant data subset for traditional networks. Then, this paper discusses the validity that dropout and weight uncertainty methods are developed to prevent over fitting in pgRBMs, pgDBNs, and pgDBMs networks. Experimental results on MNIST variation datasets show that the pgDBN and the pgDBM are effective deep neural networks learning (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Heavy metal pollution in surface water of four lakes (Naivasha, Elementaita, Nakuru, and Bogoria) of the Great Rift Valley in Kenya, East Africa was investigated in this study. Eight heavy metals including chromium (Cr), nickel (Ni), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), arsenic (As), lead (Pb), cadmium (Cd), and mercury (Hg) were determined using inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometer (ICP-MS). Among the tested heavy metals, Cd and Hg were detected in all surface water samples. The concentrations of Cr, Cd, Ni, and Pb were relatively lower than those of other metals in the four lakes. Results of Kohonen self-organizing map indicated that all the sampling sites in four lakes of the Great Rift Valley in Kenya could be classified into three different groups based on the heavy metal pollution. Lake Naivasha and Nakuru had characteristics of low concentrations of Cr, Ni, Cu, As, and Hg. Lake Bogoria was characterized by high levels of Ni, Cu, Cd, and Hg, and low levels of Pb, Cr, Zn, and As. Lake Elementaita showed characteristics of high concentrations of As and Hg and low concentrations of Pb, Ni, Cu, and Cd. Source identification using principal component analysis (PCA) indicated that anthropogenic factor played an increasingly important role in the heavy metal pollution of four lakes of the Great Rift Valley in Kenya, East Africa. Analysis of non-carcinogenic health risks of heavy metals indicated Hg and As in Lake Elementaita and Hg in Lake Bogoria may pose adverse health effects to local residents via ingestion route.
Recently, deep learning processors have become one of the most promising solutions of accelerating deep learning algorithms. Currently, the only method of programming the deep learning processors is through writing assembly instructions by bare hands, which costs a lot of programming efforts and causes very low efficiency. One solution is to integrate the deep learning processors as a new back-end into one prevalent high-level deep learning framework (e.g., TPU (tensor processing unit) is integrated into Tensorflow directly). However, this will obstruct other frameworks to profit from the programming interface. The alternative approach is to design a framework-independent low-level library for deep learning processors (e.g., the deep learning library for GPU, cuDNN). In this fashion, the library could be conveniently invoked in high-level programming frameworks and provides more generality. In order to allow more deep learning frameworks to gain benefits from this environment, we envision it as a low-level library which could be easily embedded into current high-level frameworks and provide high performance. Three major issues of designing such a library are discussed. The first one is the design of data structures. Data structures should be as few as possible while being able to support all possible operations. This will allow us to optimize the data structures easier without compromising the generality. The second one is the selection of operations, which should provide a rather wide range of operations to support various types of networks with high efficiency. The third is the design of the API, which should provide a flexible and user-friendly programming model and should be easy to be embedded into existing deep learning frameworks. Considering all the above issues, we propose DLPlib, a tensor-filter based library designed specific for deep learning processors. It contains two major data structures, tensor and filter, and a set of operators including basic neural network primitives and matrix/vector operations. It provides a descriptor-based API exposed as a C++ interface. The library achieves a speedup of 0.79x compared with the performance of hand-written assembly instructions.
In-situ intelligent manufacturing for large-volume equipment requires industrial robots with absolute high-accuracy positioning and orientation steering control. Conventional robots mainly employ an offline calibration technology to identify and compensate key robotic parameters. However, the dynamic and static parameters of a robot change nonlinearly. It is not possible to acquire a robot's actual parameters and control the absolute pose of the robot with a high accuracy within a large workspace by offline calibration in real-time. This study proposes a real-time online absolute pose steering control method for an industrial robot based on six degrees of freedom laser tracking measurement, which adopts comprehensive compensation and correction of differential movement variables. First, the pose steering control system and robot kinematics error model are constructed, and then the pose error compensation mechanism and algorithm are introduced in detail. By accurately achieving the position and orientation of the robot end-tool, mapping the computed Jacobian matrix of the joint variable and correcting the joint variable, the real-time online absolute pose compensation for an industrial robot is accurately implemented in simulations and experimental tests. The average positioning error is 0.048 mm and orientation accuracy is better than 0.01 deg. The results demonstrate that the proposed method is feasible, and the online absolute accuracy of a robot is sufficiently enhanced. (C) 2017 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE)
The present study aimed to explore the effects of psychological pain theory based cognitive therapy (PPTBCT) on suicide among depressed patients, compared with a control group who received usual psychological care (UPC). The sample consisted of 32 depressed patients and 32 healthy control subjects. All participants completed the Beck Scale for Suicide Ideation (BSI), Beck Depression Inventory, Three-Dimensional Psychological Pain Scale (TDPPS), and Problem Solving Inventory(PSI), and Automatic Thoughts Questionnaire (ATQ). All measures differed significantly between depressed patients and healthy controls. Then clinical participants were assigned randomly to the PPTBCT (n=19) and control (n=13) groups. During the 8-week intervention, scores related to depression, suicidal ideation, psychological pain, and automatic thoughts were decreased in both groups at the post-intervention and 4-week follow-up time points, compared with pre intervention scores. BSI scores remained low at follow up and did not differ significantly from post-intervention scores in the PPTBCT group, but were significantly higher at follow up than at post-intervention in the control group. PPTBCT may effectively reduce suicide risk in patients with major depressive disorder, although the effects of its application need to be confirmed.
This paper considers the distributed sampled-data control problem of a group of mobile robots connected via distance-induced proximity networks. A dwell time is assumed in order to avoid chattering in the neighbor relations that may be caused by abrupt changes of positions when updating information from neighbors. Distributed sampled-data control laws are designed based on nearest neighbor rules, which in conjunction with continuous-time dynamics results in hybrid closed-loop systems. For uniform and independent initial states, a sufficient condition is provided to guarantee synchronization for the system without leaders. In order to steer all robots to move with the desired orientation and speed, we then introduce a number of leaders into the system, and quantitatively establish the proportion of leaders needed to track either constant or time-varying signals. All these conditions depend only on the neighborhood radius, the maximum initial moving speed and the dwell time, without assuming a prior properties of the neighbor graphs as are used in most of the existing literature. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper establishes an off-policy integral reinforcement learning (IRL) method to solve nonlinear continuous-time (CT) nonzero-sum (NZS) games with unknown system dynamics. The IRL algorithm is presented to obtain the iterative control and off-policy learning is used to allow the dynamics to be completely unknown. Off-policy IRL is designed to do policy evaluation and policy improvement in the policy iteration algorithm. Critic and action networks are used to obtain the performance index and control for each player. The gradient descent algorithm makes the update of critic and action weights simultaneously. The convergence analysis of the weights is given. The asymptotic stability of the closed-loop system and the existence of Nash equilibrium are proved. The simulation study demonstrates the effectiveness of the developed method for nonlinear CT NZS games with unknown system dynamics.
H-infinity control is a powerful method to solve the disturbance attenuation problems that occur in some control systems. The design of such controllers relies on solving the zero-sum game (ZSG). But in practical applications, the exact dynamics is mostly unknown. Identification of dynamics also produces errors that are detrimental to the control performance. To overcome this problem, an iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm is proposed in this paper to solve the continuous-time, unknown nonlinear ZSG with only online data. A model-free approach to the Hamilton-Jacobi-Isaacs equation is developed based on the policy iteration method. Control and disturbance policies and value are approximated by neural networks (NNs) under the critic-actor-disturber structure. The NN weights are solved by the least-squares method. According to the theoretical analysis, our algorithm is equivalent to a Gauss-Newton method solving an optimization problem, and it converges uniformly to the optimal solution. The online data can also be used repeatedly, which is highly efficient. Simulation results demonstrate its feasibility to solve the unknown nonlinear ZSG. When compared with other algorithms, it saves a significant amount of online measurement time.
Spectral feature extraction is a crucial procedure in automated spectral analysis. This procedure starts from the spectral data and produces informative and non-redundant features, facilitating the subsequent automated processing and analysis with machine-learning and data-mining techniques. In this paper, we present a new automated feature extraction method for astronomical spectra, with application in spectral classification and defective spectra recovery. The basic idea of our approach is to train a deep neural network to extract features of spectra with different levels of abstraction in different layers. The deep neural network is trained with a fast layer-wise learning algorithm in an analytical way without any iterative optimization procedure. We evaluate the performance of the proposed scheme on real-world spectral data. The results demonstrate that our method is superior regarding its comprehensive performance, and the computational cost is significantly lower than that for other methods. The proposed method can be regarded as a new valid alternative general-purpose feature extraction method for various tasks in spectral data analysis.
Automatic speech and speaker recognition are traditionally treated as two independent tasks and are studied separately. The human brain in contrast deciphers the linguistic content, and the speaker traits from the speech in a collaborative manner. This key observation motivates the work presented in this paper. A collaborative joint training approach based on multitask recurrent neural network models is proposed, where the output of one task is backpropagated to the other tasks. This is a general framework for learning collaborative tasks and fits well with the goal of joint learning of automatic speech and speaker recognition. Through a comprehensive study, it is shown that the multitask recurrent neural net models deliver improved performance on both automatic speech and speaker recognition tasks as compared to single-task systems. The strength of such multitask collaborative learning is analyzed, and the impact of various training configurations is investigated.
Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) play a central role in many biological processes. Although a large amount of human PPI data has been generated by high-throughput experimental techniques, they are very limited compared to the estimated 130 000 protein interactions in humans. Hence, automatic methods for human PPI-detection are highly desired. This work proposes a novel framework, i. e., Low-rank approximationkernel Extreme Learning Machine (LELM), for detecting human PPI from a protein's primary sequences automatically. It has three main steps: 1) mapping each protein sequence into a matrix built on all kinds of adjacent amino acids; 2) applying the low-rank approximation model to the obtained matrix to solve its lowest rank representation, which reflects its true subspace structures; and 3) utilizing a powerful kernel extreme learning machine to predict the probability for PPI based on this lowest rank representation. Experimental results on a large-scale human PPI dataset demonstrate that the proposed LELM has significant advantages in accuracy and efficiency over the state-of-art approaches. Hence, this work establishes a new and effective way for the automatic detection of PPI.
Recently, projection neural network (PNN) was proposed for solving monotone variational inequalities (VIs) and related convex optimization problems. In this paper, considering the inertial term into first order PNNs, an inertial PNN (IPNN) is also proposed for solving VIs. Under certain conditions, the IPNN is proved to be stable, and can be applied to solve a broader class of constrained optimization problems related to VIs. Compared with existing neural networks (NNs), the presence of the inertial term allows us to overcome some drawbacks of many NNs, which are constructed based on the steepest descent method, and this model is more convenient for exploring different Karush-Kuhn-Tucker optimal solution for nonconvex optimization problems. Finally, simulation results on three numerical examples show the effectiveness and performance of the proposed NN.
Human beings often assess the aesthetic quality of an image coupled with the identification of the image's semantic content. This paper addresses the correlation issue between automatic aesthetic quality assessment and semantic recognition. We cast the assessment problem as the main task among a multi-task deep model, and argue that semantic recognition task offers the key to address this problem. Based on convolutional neural networks, we employ a single and simple multi-task framework to efficiently utilize the supervision of aesthetic and semantic labels. A correlation item between these two tasks is further introduced to the framework by incorporating the inter-task relationship learning. This item not only provides some useful insight about the correlation but also improves assessment accuracy of the aesthetic task. In particular, an effective strategy is developed to keep a balance between the two tasks, which facilitates to optimize the parameters of the framework. Extensive experiments on the challenging Aesthetic Visual Analysis dataset and Photo. net dataset validate the importance of semantic recognition in aesthetic quality assessment, and demonstrate that multi-task deep models can discover an effective aesthetic representation to achieve the state-of-the-art results.
The coming era of personalized cancer treatment is presenting automation with unprecedented opportunities. Currently, the drug susceptibility test of clinical cancer patients is mainly dependent on manual labor with a low level of automation. Automating the process of primary cancer cell detection will potentially have tremendous economic benefits and social significance. Automated cancer cell detection means developing robotic and automation equipments to handle single cells and molecules at the micro/nanometer-scale. The achievements of information science, engineering technology, life sciences, and nanotechnology in the past decades have led to the birth of robots that can perform effective manipulations on single living cells at the micro/nanometerscale in aqueous conditions, opening the door to automated cancer cell detection. However, there is still a huge gap between current single-cell micro/nano automation technology and clinical requirements for personalized medicine. In this paper, we will review the progress of single-cell micro/nano automation technology in recent years and discuss the facing challenges and future directions in three aspects, including automated cell isolation and delivery, automatically acquiring the physiological features of cells and data analysis.
Automata theory based on complete residuated lattice-valued logic has been initiated by Qiu, and further systematically established by Qiu et al. In this paper, we propose the notion of nondeterministic fuzzy automata with membership values in a complete residuated lattice L, called lattice-valued nondeterministic fuzzy automata (L-NFAs). In our setting, a state of an L-NFA may have more than one transition labeled by the same input symbol, which reflects nondeterminism. To compare the behaviors of L-NFAs, we introduce two language equivalence relations which have different discriminating power. Furthermore, we extend the two relations to the complete residuated lattice-valued setting and investigate their properties such as robustness and compositionality. The theory developed here is applicable to the quantitative modeling and verification of fuzzy systems. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This paper proposes a consensus algorithm for continuous-time single-integrator multi-agent systems with relative state-dependent measurement noises and time delays in directed fixed and switching topologies. Each agent's control input relies on its own information state and its neighbors' information states, which are delayed and corrupted by measurement noises whose intensities are considered a function of the agents' relative states. The time delays are considered time-varying and uniform. For directed fixed topologies, condition to ensure mean square linear -consensus (average consensus, respectively) are derived for digraphs having spanning tree (balanced digraphs having spanning tree, respectively). For directed switching topologies, conditions on both time delays and dwell time have been given to extend the mean square linear -consensus (average consensus, respectively) of fixed topologies to switching topologies. Copyright (c) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Existing sampling-based footstep planning method for biped navigation used an intermediate static posture for footstep transition. However, when adopting this approach, the robot is sensitive to modeling error and external environments, and also the transition between different gait patterns is unnatural. This article presents a central pattern generator approach to footstep transition for biped navigation. First, this approach decomposes the biped walking motion into five motion types and designs central pattern generator network for all joints of legs accordingly. Then, the central pattern generator parameters are simplified and the relationship between these parameters and footstep transition is formulated. By modifying the central pattern generator parameters, different walking gaits can be obtained. With sensing feedbacks, self-adaption walking on irregular terrains, such as walking on unknown sloped terrains and flat floor with tiny obstacles, is realized. Experiments were conducted both in simulator and on a physical biped robot. Results have shown that the proposed approach is able to generate gesture transition trajectory for biped robot navigation and realize a self-adaption walking for irregular terrains.
The proliferation of mobile devices is producing a new wave of mobile visual search applications that enable users to sense their surroundings with smart phones. As the particular challenges of mobile visual search, achieving high recognition bitrate becomes the consistent target of existed related works. In this paper, we explore to holistically exploit the deep learning-based hashing methods for more robust and instant mobile visual search. Firstly, we present a comprehensive survey of the existed deep learning based hashing methods, which showcases their remarkable power of automatic learning highly robust and compact binary code representation for visual search. Furthermore, in order to implement the deep learning hashing on computation and memory constrained mobile device, we investigate the deep learning optimization works to accelerate the computation and reduce the model size. Finally, we demonstrate a case study of deep learning hashing based mobile visual search system. The evaluations show that the proposed system can significantly improve 70% accuracy in MAP than traditional methods, and only needs less than one second computation time on the ordinary mobile phone. Finally, with the comprehensive study, we discuss the open issues and future research directions of deep learning hashing for mobile visual search.
A spontaneous process is demonstrated to assemble nanoparticles into an optimal interconnect, as natural systems spontaneously figure out the shortest path. The optimal interconnect leads to a 65.9% decrease in electromagnetic interference, a 17.1% decrease in delay, and a 24.5% decrease in energy-delay. It will be of great significance for interconnect fabrication of versatile electronic circuits.
During the display of peptide/human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-I complex for further immune recognition, the cleaved and transported antigenic peptides have to bind to HLA-I protein and the binding affinity between peptide epitopes and HLA proteins directly influences the immune recognition ability in human beings. Key factors affecting the binding affinity during the generation, selection and presentation processes of HLA-I complex have not yet been fully discovered. In this study, a new method describing the HLA class I-peptide interactions was proposed. Three hundred and forty features of HLA I proteins and peptide sequences were utilized for analysis by four candidate algorithms, screening the optimal classifier. Features derived from the optimal classifier were further selected and systematically analyzed, revealing the core regulators. The results validated the hypothesis that features of HLA I proteins and related peptides simultaneously affect the binding process, though with discrepant redundancy. Besides, the high relative ratio (16/20) of the amino acid composition features suggests the unique role of sequence signatures for the binding processes. Integrating biological, evolutionary and chemical features of both HLA I molecules and peptides, this study may provide a new perspective of the underlying mechanisms of HLA I-mediated immune reactions.
An assumption that the non-linear method is more reasonable than the linear method when canopy reflectance is used to establish the yield prediction model was proposed and tested in this study. For this purpose, partial least squares regression (PLSR) and artificial neural networks (ANN), represented linear and non-linear analysis method, were applied and compared for wheat yield prediction. Multi-period Landsat-8 OLT images were collected at two different wheat growth stages, and a field campaign was conducted to obtain grain yields at selected sampling sites in 2014. The field data were divided into a calibration database and a testing database. Using calibration data, a cross-validation concept was introduced for the PLSR and ANN model construction to prevent over-fitting. All models were tested using the test data. The ANN yield-prediction model produced R-2, RMSE and RMSE% values of 0.61, 979 kg ha(-1), and 10.38%, respectively, in the testing phase, performing better than the PLSR yield-prediction model, which produced R-2, RMSE, and RMSE% values of 0.39, 1211 kg ha(-1), and 12.84%, respectively. Non-linear method was suggested as a better method for yield prediction. (C) 2016 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have recently achieved remarkable successes in various image classification and understanding tasks. The deep features obtained at the top fully connected layer of the CNN (FC-features) exhibit rich global semantic information and are extremely effective in image classification. On the other hand, the convolutional features in the middle layers of the CNN also contain meaningful local information, but are not fully explored for image representation. In this paper, we propose a novel locally supervised deep hybrid model (LS-DHM) that effectively enhances and explores the convolutional features for scene recognition. First, we notice that the convolutional features capture local objects and fine structures of scene images, which yield important cues for discriminating ambiguous scenes, whereas these features are significantly eliminated in the highly compressed FC representation. Second, we propose a new local convolutional supervision layer to enhance the local structure of the image by directly propagating the label information to the convolutional layers. Third, we propose an efficient Fisher convolutional vector (FCV) that successfully rescues the orderless mid-level semantic information (e.g., objects and textures) of scene image. The FCV encodes the large-sized convolutional maps into a fixed-length mid-level representation, and is demonstrated to be strongly complementary to the high-level FC-features. Finally, both the FCV and FC-features are collaboratively employed in the LS-DHM representation, which achieves outstanding performance in our experiments. It obtains 83.75% and 67.56% accuracies, respectively, on the heavily benchmarked MIT Indoor67 and SUN397 data sets, advancing the state-of-the-art substantially.
In feature learning field, many methods are inspired by advances in neuroscience. Among them, neural network and sparse coding have been broadly studied. Predictive sparse decomposition (PSD) is a practical variant of these two methods. It trains a neural network to estimate the sparse codes. After training, the neural network is fine-tuned to achieve higher performance on object recognition tasks. It is widely believed that introducing discriminative information can make the features more useful for classification task. Hence, in this work, we propose applying the task-driven dictionary learning framework to the PSD and demonstrate that this new model can be optimized by the stochastic gradient descent (SGD) algorithm. Before our work, the semi-supervised auto-encoder framework has already been proposed to guide neural network to extract discriminative representations. But it does not improve the classification performance of neural network. In the experiments, we compare the proposed method with the semi-supervised auto-encoder method. The performance of PSD is used as the baseline for these two methods. On the MNIST and USPS datasets, our method can generate more discriminative and predictable sparse codes than other methods. Furthermore, the recognition accuracy of neural network can be improved.
In this study, we introduce the application of data mining to petroleum exploration and development to obtain high-performance predictive models and optimal classifications of geology, reservoirs, reservoir beds, and fluid properties. Data mining is a practical method for finding characteristics of, and inherent laws in massive multi-dimensional data. The data mining method is primarily composed of three loops, which are feature selection, model parameter optimization, and model performance evaluation. The method's key techniques involve applying genetic algorithms to carry out feature selection and parameter optimization and using repeated cross-validation methods to obtain unbiased estimation of generalization accuracy. The optimal model is finally selected from the various algorithms tested. In this paper, the evaluation of water-flooded layers and the classification of conglomerate reservoirs in Karamay oil field are selected as case studies to analyze comprehensively two important functions in data mining, namely predictive modeling and cluster analysis. For the evaluation of water-flooded layers, six feature subset schemes and five distinct types of data mining methods (decision trees, artificial neural networks, support vector machines, Bayesian networks, and ensemble learning) are analyzed and compared. The results clearly demonstrate that decision trees are superior to the other methods in terms of predictive model accuracy and interpretability. Therefore, a decision tree-based model is selected as the final model for identifying water-flooded layers in the conglomerate reservoir. For the reservoir classification, the reservoir classification standards from four types of clustering algorithms, such as those based on division, level, model, and density, are comparatively analyzed. The results clearly indicate that the clustering derived from applying the standard K-means algorithm, which is based on division, provides the best fit to the geological characteristics of the actual reservoir and the greatest accuracy of reservoir classification. Moreover, the internal measurement parameters of this algorithm, such as compactness, efficiency, and resolution, are all better than those of the other three algorithms. Compared with traditional methods from exploration geophysics, the data mining method has obvious advantages in solving problems involving calculation of reservoir parameters and reservoir classification using different specialized field data. Hence, the effective application of data mining methods can provide better services for petroleum exploration and development.
Machine learning plays a vital role in several modern economic and industrial fields, and selecting an optimized machine learning method to improve time series' forecasting accuracy is challenging. Advanced machine learning methods, e.g., the support vector regression (SVR) model, are widely employed in forecasting fields, but the individual SVR pays no attention to the significance of data selection, signal processing and optimization, which cannot always satisfy the requirements of time series forecasting. By preprocessing and analyzing the original time series, in this paper, a hybrid SVR model is developed, considering periodicity, trend and randomness, and combined with data selection, signal processing and an optimization algorithm for short-term load forecasting. Case studies of electricity power data from New South Wales and Singapore are regarded as exemplifications to estimate the performance of the developed novel model. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed hybrid method is not only robust but also capable of achieving significant improvement compared with the traditional single models and can be an effective and efficient tool for power load forecasting.
The long-term goal of artificial intelligence (AI) is to make machines learn and think like human beings. Due to the high levels of uncertainty and vulnerability in human life and the open-ended nature of problems that humans are facing, no matter how intelligent machines are, they are unable to completely replace humans. Therefore, it is necessary to introduce human cognitive capabilities or human-like cognitive models into AI systems to develop a new form of AI, that is, hybrid-augmented intelligence. This form of AI or machine intelligence is a feasible and important developing model. Hybrid-augmented intelligence can be divided into two basic models: one is human-in-the-loop augmented intelligence with human-computer collaboration, and the other is cognitive computing based augmented intelligence, in which a cognitive model is embedded in the machine learning system. This survey describes a basic framework for human-computer collaborative hybrid-augmented intelligence, and the basic elements of hybrid-augmented intelligence based on cognitive computing. These elements include intuitive reasoning, causal models, evolution of memory and knowledge, especially the role and basic principles of intuitive reasoning for complex problem solving, and the cognitive learning framework for visual scene understanding based on memory and reasoning. Several typical applications of hybrid-augmented intelligence in related fields are given.
Separating an optical remote sensing image into sea and land areas is very challenging yet of great importance to coastline extraction and subsequent object detection. Traditional methods based on handcrafted feature extraction and image processing often face this dilemma when confronting high-resolution remote sensing images for their complicated texture and intensity distribution. In this letter, we apply the prevalent deep convolutional neural networks to the sea-land segmentation problem and make two innovations on top of the traditional structure. First, we propose a local smooth regularization to achieve better spatially consistent results, which frees us from the complicated morphological operations that are commonly used in traditional methods. Second, we use a multitask loss to simultaneously obtain the segmentation and edge detection results. The attached structured edge detection branch can further refine the segmentation result and dramatically improve edge accuracy. Experiments on a set of natural-colored images from Google Earth demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach in terms of quantitative and visual performances compared with state-of-the-art methods.
Active deep learning classification of hyperspectral images is considered in this paper. Deep learning has achieved success in many applications, but good-quality labeled samples are needed to construct a deep learning network. It is expensive getting good labeled samples in hyperspectral images for remote sensing applications. An active learning algorithm based on a weighted incremental dictionary learning is proposed for such applications. The proposed algorithm selects training samples that maximize two selection criteria, namely representative and uncertainty. This algorithm trains a deep network efficiently by actively selecting training samples at each iteration. The proposed algorithm is applied for the classification of hyperspectral images, and compared with other classification algorithms employing active learning. It is shown that the proposed algorithm is efficient and effective in classifying hyperspectral images.
In order to improve the feedback stability of flatness control system during the acceleration and deceleration rolling process, the structure and corresponding optimization model of flatness control system have been established based on flatness efficiency factors. Analysis on the work roll bending control loop of the flatness control system has been carried out. Based on the analysis, both the cause of time delay and the corresponding influences on the system stability have been investigated. Moreover, simulations have been implemented for both the conventional PID controller and the Smith predictor-PID controller of work roll bending control with different time delays. Based on the investigation and simulations, a new flatness control strategy including the time delay compensation has been developed. When the time delay varies, the flatness control system will automatically switch the control mode to ensure the system stability is not affected. Applications show that the proposed control strategy can guarantee a good stability and high steady-state precision for the flatness control system during the acceleration and deceleration rolling process.
The increasing number of space debris has created an orbital debris environment that poses increasing impact risks to existing space systems and human space flights. For the safety of in-orbit spacecrafts, we should optimally schedule surveillance tasks for the existing facilities to allocate resources in a manner that most significantly improves the ability to predict and detect events involving affected spacecrafts. This paper analyzes two criteria that mainly affect the performance of a scheduling scheme and introduces an artificial intelligence algorithm into the scheduling of tasks of the space debris surveillance network. A new scheduling algorithm based on the particle swarm optimization algorithmis proposed, which can be implemented in two different ways: individual optimization and joint optimization. Numerical experiments with multiple facilities and objects are conducted based on the proposed algorithm, and simulation results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.
In this paper, a human-machine shared control strategy is proposed for the navigation control of a wheelchair, employing both brain-machine control mode and autonomous control mode. In the brain-machine control mode, contrary to the traditional four-direction control signals, a novel brain-machine interface using steady-state visual evoked potentials is presented, which utilizes two brain signals to produce a polar polynomial trajectory. The produced trajectory is continuous in curvature without violating dynamic constraints of the wheelchair. In the autonomous control mode, the synthesis of angle-based potential field and vision-based simultaneous localization and mapping technique is proposed to guide the robot navigating among the obstacles. Extensive experiments have been conducted to test the developed shared control wheelchair in several scenarios with a number of volunteers, and the results have verified the effectiveness of the proposed shared control scheme.
Dexterous continuum manipulators (DCMs) have been widely adopted for minimally-and less-invasive surgery. During the operation, these DCMs interact with surrounding anatomy actively or passively. The interaction force will inevitably affect the tip position and shape of DCMs, leading to potentially inaccurate control near critical anatomy. In this paper, we demonstrated a two-dimensional mechanical model for a tendon actuated, notched DCM with compliant joints. The model predicted deformation of the DCM accurately in the presence of tendon force, friction force, and external force. A partition approach was proposed to describe the DCM as a series of interconnected rigid and flexible links. Beam mechanics, taking into consideration tendon interaction and external force on the tip and the body, was applied to obtain the deformation of each flexible link of the DCM. The model results were compared with experiments for free bending as well as bending in the presence of external forces acting at either the tip or body of the DCM. The overall mean error of tip position between model predictions and all of the experimental results was 0.62 +/- 0.41 mm. The results suggest that the proposed model can effectively predict the shape of the DCM.
This paper is concerned with the winner-take-all (WTA) problem on networks. We propose the first distributed protocol to address this problem dynamically. This protocol features strong nonlinearity. Theoretical analysis reveals that it contains invariant quantities, symmetric solutions, and multiple equilibrium points. By leveraging these properties, this work proves the instability of its non-WTA solutions, and global convergence to the WTA solution via Lyapunov theory. Two simulations over networks with 10 and 200 nodes, respectively, are conducted. Simulation results have well verified the theoretical conclusions drawn in this paper.
In recent years, neural network accelerators have been shown to achieve both high energy efficiency and high performance for a broad application scope within the important category of recognition and mining applications. Still, both the energy efficiency and performance of such accelerators remain limited by memory accesses. In this paper, we focus on image applications, arguably the most important category among recognition and mining applications. The neural networks which are state-of-the-art for these applications are convolutional neural networks (CNNs), and they have an important property: weights are shared among many neurons, considerably reducing the neural network memory footprint. This property allows to entirely map a CNN within an SRAM, eliminating all DRAM accesses for weights. By further hoisting this accelerator next to the image sensor, it is possible to eliminate all remaining DRAM accesses, i.e., for inputs and outputs. In this paper, we propose such a CNN accelerator, placed next to a CMOS or CCD sensor. The absence of DRAM accesses combined with a careful exploitation of the specific data access patterns within CNNs allows us to design an accelerator which is highly energy-efficient. We present a single-core implementation down to the layout at 65 nm, with a modest footprint of 5.94mm(2) and consuming only 336mm(2), but still about 30x faster than high-end GPUs. For visual processing with higher resolution and frame-rate requirements, we further present a multicore implementation with elevated performance.
This paper studies an approach to gait based human identification via similarity learning by deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). With a pretty small group of labeled multi-view human walking videos, we can train deep networks to recognize the most discriminative changes of gait patterns which suggest the change of human identity. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work based on deep CNNs for gait recognition in the literature. Here, we provide an extensive empirical evaluation in terms of various scenarios, namely, cross-view and cross-walking-condition, with different preprocessing approaches and network architectures. The method is first evaluated on the challenging CASIA-B dataset in terms of cross-view gait recognition. Experimental results show that it outperforms the previous state-of-the-art methods by a significant margin. In particular, our method shows advantages when the cross-view angle is large, i.e., no less than 36 degree. And the average recognition rate can reach 94 percent, much better than the previous best result (less than 65 percent). The method is further evaluated on the OU-ISIR gait dataset to test its generalization ability to larger data. OU-ISIR is currently the largest dataset available in the literature for gait recognition, with 4,007 subjects. On this dataset, the average accuracy of our method under identical view conditions is above 98 percent, and the one for cross-view scenarios is above 91 percent. Finally, the method also performs the best on the USF gait dataset, whose gait sequences are imaged in a real outdoor scene. These results show great potential of this method for practical applications.
Heat rate value is considered as one of the most important thermal economic indicators, which determines the economic, efficient and safe operation of steam turbine unit. At the same time, an accurate heat rate forecasting is core task in the optimal operation of steam turbine unit. Recently, least squares support vector machine (LSSVM) is being proved an effective machine learning technique for solving nonlinear regression problem with a small sample set. However, it has also been proved that the prediction precision of LSSVM is highly dependent on its parameters, which are hardly choosing for the LSSVM. In the paper, an improved gravitational search algorithm (AC-GSA) is presented to further enhance optimal performance of GSA, and it is employed to serve as an approach for pre-selecting LSSVM parameters. Then, a novel soft computing method, based on LSSVM and AC-GSA, is therefore proposed to forecast heat rate of a 600 MW supercritical steam turbine unit. It combines the merits of the high accuracy of LSSVM and the fast convergence of GSA in order to build heat rate prediction model and obtain a well-generalized model. Results indicate that the developed AC-GSA-LSSVM model demonstrates better regression precision and generalization capability.
The brain is highly energy consuming, therefore is under strong selective pressure to achieve cost-efficiency in both cortical connectivities and activities. However, cost-efficiency as a design principle for cortical activities has been rarely studied. Especially it is not clear how cost-efficiency is related to ubiquitously observed multi-scale properties: irregular firing, oscillations and neuronal avalanches. Here we demonstrate that these prominent properties can be simultaneously observed in a generic, biologically plausible neural circuit model that captures excitation-inhibition balance and realistic dynamics of synaptic conductance. Their co-emergence achieves minimal energy cost as well as maximal energy efficiency on information capacity, when neuronal firing are coordinated and shaped by moderate synchrony to reduce otherwise redundant spikes, and the dynamical clusterings are maintained in the form of neuronal avalanches. Such cost-efficient neural dynamics can be employed as a foundation for further efficient information processing under energy constraint.
A concept was developed to inversely estimate the near-field temperature as well as the surface heat flux for the transient heat conduction problem with boundary condition of the unknown heat flux. The mathematical formula was derived for the inverse estimation of the near-field temperature and surface heat flux via a single point temperature measurement. The experiments were carried out in a vacuum chamber and the theoretically predicted temperatures were justified in specific positions. The inverse estimation principle was validated and the estimation deviation was evaluated for the present configuration.
Heart failure (HF) has been considered as one of the deadliest human diseases worldwide and the accurate prediction of HF risks would be vital for HF prevention and treatment. To predict HF risks, decision support systems based on artificial neural networks (ANN) have been widely proposed in previous studies. Generally, these existing ANN-based systems usually assumed that HF attributes have equal risk contribution to the HF diagnosis. However, several previous investigations have shown that the risk contributions of the attributes would be different. Thus the equal risk assumption concept associated with existing ANN methods would not properly reflect the diagnosis status of HF patients. In this study, the commonly used 13 HF attributes were considered and their contributions were determined by an experienced cardiac clinician. And Fuzzy analytic hierarchy process (Fuzzy_AHP) technique was used to compute the global weights for the attributes based on their individual contribution. Then the global weights that represent the contributions of the attributes were applied to train an ANN classifier for the prediction of HF risks in patients. The performance of the newly proposed decision support system based on the integration of ANN and Fuzzy_AHP methods was evaluated by using online clinical dataset of 297 HF patients and compared with that of the conventional ANN method. Our result shows that the proposed method could achieve an average prediction accuracy of 91.10%, which is 4.40% higher in comparison to that of the conventional ANN method. In addition, the newly proposed method also had better performance than seven previous methods that reported prediction accuracies in the range of 57.85-89.01%. The improvement of the HF risk prediction in the current study might be due to both the various contributions of the HF attributes and the proposed hybrid method. These findings suggest that the proposed method could be used to accurately predict HF risks in the clinic. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Stellar spectral classification is one of the most fundamental tasks in survey astronomy. Many automated classification methods have been applied to spectral data. However, their main limitation is that the model parameters must be tuned repeatedly to deal with different data sets. In this paper, we utilize the Bayesian support vector machines (BSVM) to classify the spectral subclass data. Based on Gibbs sampling, BSVM can infer all model parameters adaptively according to different data sets, which allows us to circumvent the time-consuming cross validation for penalty parameter. We explored different normalization methods for stellar spectral data, and the best one has been suggested in this study. Finally, experimental results on several stellar spectral subclass classification problems show that the BSVM model not only possesses good adaptability but also provides better prediction performance than traditional methods. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier B.V.
A distributed optimisation problem is investigated for disturbed continuous-time multi-agent systems with discrete-time communication and gradient measurement. First, a distributed optimisation algorithm with time-triggered communication and gradient measurement is proposed. Then an event-triggered communication strategy and an event-triggered gradient measurement strategy are developed, and a distributed optimisation algorithm combining these two event-triggered strategies is designed, in which the two event-triggered strategies are free of Zeno behaviour. Moreover, the exponential convergence of system can be guaranteed by using the internal model design to reject the external disturbance. Finally, an example illustrates the effectiveness of the proposed algorithms.
There is a growing public concern on the environmental pollution emitted from conventional thermal power plants. As a result, priority has been given to the development of clean energy, which leads to less pollution and fewer emissions to the environment. Hydropower, as a clean and renewable energy, plays a critical role to mitigate environmental issues associated with the power generation industry. This paper presents a theoretical analysis of hydropower generators in a comprehensive manner (including environmental and technological' perspectives) via multiple methods of Theory of Inventive Problem Solving (TRIZ), Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) and sensitivity analysis. This study aims to investigate the sustainable development path of hydropower. This provides useful inputs to select the more appropriate type of generator according to the status quo of product development with a special attention to the environmental performance. Results show that the evaporative cooling generator is a better choice with less greenhouse gas emission (a total of 2.59*10(-1)kg CO(2)eq/kWh) than air cooling generator (a total of 6.04*10(-1)kg CO(2)eq/kWh). According to the evaluation of technology readiness and scenario analysis, the advancement of technology can also make a contribution to the economic development. These findings are useful for policy making on choosing the appropriate type of cooling system as well as hydropower system. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
By integrating a triboelectric nanogenerator (TENG) and a thin film dielectric elastomer actuator (DEA), the DEA can be directly powered and controlled by the output of the TENG, which demonstrates a self-powered actuation system toward various practical applications in the fields of electronic skin and soft robotics. This paper describes a method to construct a physical model for this integrated TENG-DEA system on the basis of nonequilibrium thermodynamics and electrostatics induction theory. The model can precisely simulate the influences from both the viscoelasticity and current leakage to the output performance of the TENG, which can help us to better understand the interaction between TENG and DEA devices. Accordingly, the established electric field, the deformation strain of the DEA, and the output current from the TENG are systemically analyzed by using this model. A comparison between real measurements and simulation results confirms that the proposed model can predict the dynamic response of the DEA driven by contact-electrification and can also quantitatively analyze the relaxation of the tribo-induced strain due to the leakage behavior. Hence, the proposed model in this work could serve as a guidance for optimizing the devices in the future studies. Published by AIP Publishing.
UT1-UTC predictions especially short-term predictions are essential in various fields linked to reference systems such as space navigation and precise orbit determinations of artificial Earth satellites. In this paper, an integrated model combining the grey model GM (1, 1) and neural networks (NN) are proposed for predicting UT1-UTC. In this approach, the effects of the Solid Earth tides and ocean tides together with leap seconds are first removed from observed UT1-UTC data to derive UT1R-TAI. Next the derived UT1R-TAI time-series are de-trended using the GM(1, 1) and then residuals are obtained. Then the residuals are used to train a network. The subsequently predicted residuals are added to the GM(1, 1) to obtain the UT1R-TAI predictions. Finally, the predicted UT1R-TAI are corrected for the tides together with leap seconds to obtain UT1-UTC predictions. The daily values of UT1-UTC between January 7, 2010 and August 6, 2016 from the International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service (IERS) 08 C04 series are used for modeling and validation of the proposed model. The results of the predictions up to 30 days in the future are analyzed and compared with those by the GM(1, 1)-only model and combination of the least-squares (LS) extrapolation of the harmonic model including the linear part, annual and semi-annual oscillations and NN. It is found that the proposed model outperforms the other two solutions. In addition, the predictions are compared with those from the Earth Orientation Parameters Prediction Comparison Campaign (EOP PCC) lasting from October 1, 2005 to February 28, 2008. The results show that the prediction accuracy is inferior to that of those methods taking into account atmospheric angular momentum (AAM), i.e., Kalman filter and adaptive transform from AAM to LODR, but noticeably better that of the other existing methods and techniques, e.g., autoregressive filtering and least-squares collocation. (C) 2016 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Neuroimaging-based single subject prediction of brain disorders has gained increasing attention in recent years. Using a variety of neuroimaging modalities such as structural, functional and diffusion MRI, along with machine learning techniques, hundreds of studies have been carried out for accurate classification of patients with heterogeneous mental and neurodegenerative disorders such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. More than 500 studies have been published during the past quarter century on single subject prediction focused on a multiple brain disorders. In the first part of this study, we provide a survey of more than 200 reports in this field with a focus on schizophrenia, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), Alzheimer's disease (AD), depressive disorders, autism spectrum disease (ASD) and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Detailed information about those studies such as sample size, type and number of extracted features and reported accuracy are summarized and discussed. To our knowledge, this is by far the most comprehensive review of neuroimaging-based single subject prediction of brain disorders. In the second part, we present our opinion on major pitfalls of those studies from a machine learning point of view. Common biases are discussed and suggestions are provided. Moreover, emerging trends such as decentralized data sharing, multimodal brain imaging, differential diagnosis, disease subtype classification and deep learning are also discussed. Based on this survey, there is extensive evidence showing the great potential of neuroimaging data for single subject prediction of various disorders. However, the main bottleneck of this exciting field is still the limited sample size, which could be potentially addressed by modern data sharing models such as the ones discussed in this paper. Emerging big data technologies and advanced data-intensive machine learning methodologies such as deep learning have coincided with an increasing need for accurate, robust and generalizable single subject prediction of brain disorders during an exciting time. In this report, we survey the past and offer some opinions regarding the road ahead. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To accurately compute the rates of the abstraction channels of hydrogen plus ethane (Et), propane (Pr), and dimethyl ether (DME), ring-polymer molecular dynamics (RPMD) method is used in conjunction with the recently constructed local permutation invariant polynomial neural-networks potential energy surface of the parent H + CH4 system [Q. Meng et al., J. Chem. Phys. 144, 154312 (2016)]. For H + Et, one of the H atoms in CH4 of the parent system is replaced by a methyl group, while for the H + DME reaction, it is replaced by the methoxyl group. For the H + Pr reaction, replacing one of the H atoms in CH4 by an ethyl group, the terminal channel is built, meanwhile the middle channel is considered through replacing two H atoms in CH4 by two methyl groups. Since the potential energy barriers of the title reactions must differ from the H + CH4 barrier, the corrections have to be made by computing the ratio of free-energy barriers between H + CH4 and the title reactions at coupled cluster with a full treatment singles and doubles (where the triples contribution is calculated by perturbation theory, that is, CCSD(T)) level. Comparing the present RPMD rates with the previous theoretical and experimental results, good agreement can be found. Moreover, probable reasons for the deviation between the present RPMD rates and the previous experimental ones are discussed. Published by AIP Publishing.
On the Tibetan Plateau, the limited ground-based rainfall information owing to a harsh environment has brought great challenges to hydrological studies. Satellite-based rainfall products, which allow for a better coverage than both radar network and rain gauges on the Tibetan Plateau, can be suitable alternatives for studies on investigating the hydrological processes and climate change. In this study, a newly developed daily satellite-based precipitation product, termed Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information Using Artificial Neural Networks - Climate Data Record (PERSIANN-CDR), is used as input for a hydrologic model to simulate streamflow in the upper Yellow and Yangtze River basins on the Tibetan Plateau. The results show that the simulated streamflows using PERSIANN-CDR precipitation and the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS) precipitation are closer to observation than that using limited gauge-based precipitation interpolation in the upper Yangtze River basin. The simulated streamflow using gauge-based precipitation are higher than the streamflow observation during the wet season. In the upper Yellow River basin, gauge-based precipitation, GLDAS precipitation, and PERSIANN-CDR precipitation have similar good performance in simulating streamflow. The evaluation of streamflow simulation capability in this study partly indicates that the PERSIANN-CDR rainfall product has good potential to be a reliable dataset and an alternative information source of a limited gauge network for conducting long-term hydrological and climate studies on the Tibetan Plateau.
This paper concerns the asymptotic synchronization of delayed reaction-diffusion neural networks (RDNNs) with unknown nonidentical time-varying coupling strengths, where the time-varying coupling strengths are consist of continuous time-varying periodic parameters and time-invariant nonnegative parameters. By utilizing a novel adaptive approach, the differential-difference type adaptive laws of coupling strengths and adaptive controller are designed such that the nonidentical RDNNs are asymptotic synchronization. The sufficient conditions dependent on the reaction-diffusion terms are derived by constructing a novel Lyapunov-Krasovskii-like composite energy functional (CEF) and using Barbalat's lemma. Finally, a simulation example is provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the developed approach. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The traditional method of short-term tidal current prediction, harmonic method, typically needs more than 18 years of history records. The method in the article uses univariate feature selection and F-test to reduce the dimension of the data fed to support vector regressor, which reduces the need of history records to less than a year. Model parameters are selected by grid searching and cross-validation. History records from two datasets are used to build prediction models, spanning 3 months and 1 year respectively. Mean average errors of both datasets after normalizing are less than 0.05.
Purpose - Lower-limb exoskeleton is widely used for assisting walk in rehabilitation field. One key problem for exoskeleton control is to model and predict suitable gait trajectories for wearer.
Aiming to elevate the ability of wind power to improve power quality of power system, this article proposed a coordinated control strategy based on adaptive fuzzy control to improve the frequency and voltage quality of power system using wind power and energy storage (ESS). This strategy firstly detects the frequency and voltage deviation of power system. Then using the adaptive fuzzy control determines the frequency and voltage regulation priority. When detected power system frequency or voltage fluctuation, mention in certain areas first, change wind turbines revolving speed, pitch angle, output of grid-side converters and energy storage device through the coordination control, and adjust the active power and reactive power of wind turbines and energy storage device, make full use of power regulation ability of wind power and energy storage, ensure that power system frequency and voltage are all in high quality. Constructed the real-time simulation model based on RTDS, and the simulation results show that the coordinated control strategy proposed in this article can improve the frequency and voltage quality of power system in different working conditions.
Prediction of byproduct gas flow is of great significance to gas system scheduling in iron and steel plants. To quantify the associated prediction uncertainty, a two-step approach based on optimized twin extreme learning machine (ELM) is proposed to construct prediction intervals (PIs). In the first step, the connection weights of the twin ELM are pretrained using a pair of symmetric weighted objective functions. In the second step, output weights of the twin ELM are further optimized by particle swarm optimization (PSO). The objective function is designed to comprehensively evaluate PIs based on their coverage probability, width, and deviation. The capability of the proposed method is validated using four benchmark datasets and two real-world byproduct gas datasets. The results demonstrate that the proposed approach constructs higher quality prediction intervals than the other three conventional methods.
Since a river system is a unidirectional network, the upstream influencing factors often interfere with those downstream. We quantify the effects of the TGD on the sediment exchange processes between the Yangtze River and Dongting Lake. Based on yearly sediment load data from 1981 to 2008, two multi-layer perceptron (MLP) models were constructed to predict the potential sedimentation in Dongting Lake without implementation of the TGD. The sediment discharge at Yichang station decreased from 622.5 to 61.1 Mt/year between 1981-1985 and 2003-2008, while the sedimentation in Dongting Lake reduced from 127.3 to 6.6 Mt/year. The MLP models indicate that only 27.9% of the decreased sediment load at Yichang station and 16.9% of that in Dongting Lake is caused by the TGD, while the rest is caused mostly by other upstream climate variations and anthropogenic impacts.
In nuclear fusion research, inspecting tokamak vessel by controlling remote-handling robot is promising. To achieve collision-free, precise robot movement in tokamak vessel, it is necessary for the control system to perform motion planning, closed-loop control, interface operation and other functions. In this paper, a control system based on Ethernet and CAN network for a developed snake-like robot for inspecting tokamak vessel is proposed. Then, the robot kinematics model is built. Motion planning procedure is completed by a stepwise iterative algorithm. And a dual-loop control method for each joint is realized. A control software is developed to perform control computation and interface operation. Finally, the effectiveness of the control system for the robot is verified by actual experiments.
Purpose - This paper aims to present the spherical entropy image (SEI), a novel global descriptor for the scan registration of three-dimensional (3D) point clouds. This paper also introduces a global feature-less scan registration strategy based on SEI. It is advantageous for 3D data processing in the scenarios such as mobile robotics and reverse engineering.
Recently, due to the rapid development of electron microscope (EM) with its high resolution, stacks delivered by EM can be used to analyze a variety of components that are critical to understand brain function. Since synaptic study is essential in neurobiology and can be analyzed by EM stacks, the automated routines for reconstruction of synapses based on EM Images can become a very useful tool for analyzing large volumes of brain tissue and providing the ability to understand the mechanism of brain.
Extracting the structure of single neurons is critical for understanding how they function within the neural circuits. Recent developments in microscopy techniques, and the widely recognized need for openness and standardization provide a community resource for automated reconstruction of dendritic and axonal morphology of single neurons. In order to look into the fine structure of neurons, we use the Automated Tape-collecting Ultra Microtome Scanning Electron Microscopy (ATUM-SEM) to get images sequence of serial sections of animal brain tissue that densely packed with neurons. Different from other neuron reconstruction method, we propose a method that enhances the SEM images by detecting the neuronal membranes with deep convolutional neural network (DCNN) and segments single neurons by active contour with group shape similarity. We joint the segmentation and tracing together and they interact with each other by alternate iteration that tracing aids the selection of candidate region patch for active contour segmentation while the segmentation provides the neuron geometrical features which improve the robustness of tracing. The tracing model mainly relies on the neuron geometrical features and is updated after neuron being segmented on the every next section. Our method enables the reconstruction of neurons of the drosophila mushroom body which is cut to serial sections and imaged under SEM. Our method provides an elementary step for the whole reconstruction of neuronal networks.
The precise positions of feature points in the image space are crucial for tracking systems of welding robots. And hence the quality of feature detection directly affects the accuracy of the motion of the welding robots. Moreover, a low computational cost is also needed in a real-time tracking system. This paper presents a method which effectively detects the features of the V-groove weld seam based on their geometries. A camera and a cross-line structured light are constructed to be used as the visual sensing system. Firstly, the skeletonization has applied to the image. Subsequently, Hough transform is used to find the main line of the light stripe. Secondly, The farthest point algorithm is used to estimate the bottom feature point of the weld seam. Finally, the left and right feature points are estimated by the least squares line fitting method. The experimental results show that the features can be precisely recognised by the proposed method. In addition, the computational cost of the proposed method is not expensive, and thus it satisfies the requirement of a real-time system.
Precisely quantitative assessments of stream flow response to climatic change and permafrost thawing are highly challenging and urgent in cold regions. However, due to the notably harsh environmental conditions, there is little field monitoring data of runoff in permafrost regions, which has limited the development of physically based models in these regions. To identify the impacts of climate change in the runoff process in the Three-River Headwater Region (TRHR) on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, two artificial neural network (ANN) models, one with three input variables (previous runoff, air temperature, and precipitation) and another with two input variables (air temperature and precipitation only), were developed to simulate and predict the runoff variation in the TRHR. The results show that the three-input variable ANN model has a superior real-time prediction capability and performs well in the simulation and forecasting of the runoff variation in the TRHR. Under the different scenarios conditions, the forecasting results of ANN model indicated that climate change has a great effect on the runoff processes in the TRHR. The results of this study are of practical significance for water resources management and the evaluation of the impacts of climatic change on the hydrological regime in long-term considerations.
Two-axis stabilized turntable is an important part of optical-electronic theodolite, it carries various of measuring instruments. In order to improve the response speed of the optical-electronic theodolite when tracking high speed target. In the same time, improve the stability and precision when tracking low speed target. The traditional servo controller is double close-loop structure. On the basis of traditional structure, we use the fuzzy control theory to design the servo control speed loop adjuster as a fuzzy PID controller, and the position loop is designed as a traditional first order adjuster. We introduce the theory and characteristics of PID control and fuzzy control, and discussed the structure of the speed loop fussy controller and the tuning method of the PID parameters. The fuzzy PID controller was studied with simulation on the MATLAB/Simulink platform, the performance indexes and the anti-jamming abilities of the fussy PID controller and the traditional PID controller were compared. The experiment results show that the fussy PID controller has the ability of parameter self-tuning, and its tacking ability is much better than the traditional PID controller.
While there are extensive studies of urban 2D forms, research on the varying geometric features and spatial distribution patterns of urban 3D spaces is comparatively rare. In this paper, we propose a coupled model, known as BPANN-CBRSortCA, which is based on a back propagation artificial neural network (BPANN) and case-based reasoning technology with sort cellular automaton (CBRSortCA) to simulate future urban building heights and their spatial distribution. BPANN-CBRSortCA uses BPANN to predict the vertical extrusion of building heights and uses CBRSortCA to simulate horizontal urban expansion. The BPANN-CBRSortCA model is innovative because of its capabilities to simultaneously project urban growth in the vertical and horizontal dimensions. The proposed model also overcomes the limitations of the traditional cellular automata models that cannot simulate 'diffused' urban expansion. This research used Wuhan City as a case study to simulate vertical and horizontal urban expansion from 2015 to 2025. The results showed the following: (1) in the next 10 years, new build-up will mainly appear along the edge of Hongshan and Hanyang Districts or will occupy bare land in the form of 'filling' and (2) the tallest buildings will be mainly located to the south of East Lake in Hongshan District and on undeveloped land within the city. These simulation results can provide a reference for future urban planning.
In this paper we study stochastic quasi-Newton methods for nonconvex stochastic optimization, where we assume that noisy information about the gradients of the objective function is available via a stochastic first-order oracle (SFO). We propose a general framework for such methods, for which we prove almost sure convergence to stationary points and analyze its worst case iteration complexity. When a randomly chosen iterate is returned as the output of such an algorithm, we prove that in the worst case, the SFO-calls complexity is O (E-2) to ensure that the expectation of the squared norm of the gradient is smaller than the given accuracy tolerance. We also propose a specific algorithm, namely, a stochastic damped limited-memory BFGS (SdLBFGS) method, that falls under the proposed framework. Moreover, we incorporate the stochastic variance reduced gradient variance reduction technique into the proposed SdLBFGS method and analyze its SFO-calls complexity. Numerical results on a nonconvex binary classification problem using a support vector machine and a multiclass classification problem using neural networks are reported.
Pure analytical and numerical approaches are found undesirable for solving inverse kinematics of redundant robots. This is due to huge iterative procedures required to determine efficient joint configuration(s) for given target. In this paper, a new geometric method is presented for solving the inverse kinematics of snake robots ideal for real-time teleoperated surgery of internal organs. The method was applied to a 10-link redundant robotic model, capable of spatial navigation. Simulation result from the via-paths of circular track and human signature shows that the proposed method is fast and accurate in determining joint angles necessary to reach given target points with worst case mean error of (x) over bar =0.608 +/- 0.231 mm.
Due to the scarcity of the licensed spectrum allocated for mobile communication systems, licensed-assisted access long-term evolution (LAA-LTE) network is recently proposed to deploy in unlicensed spectrum, which is currently occupied by different Wi-Fi systems. It is a very challenging problem to ensure fair coexistence between LAA-LTE and Wi-Fi networks, in terms of spectrum sharing and traffic management. To solve this problem, a fair downlink traffic management (FDTM) scheme is proposed in this paper for hybrid LAA-LTE/Wi-Fi networks. FDTM aims to tune the minimum contention window (CWmin) values and assigns feasible weights for the LAA eNBs with different traffic loads, thus to achieve; 1) fair spectrum sharing with the coexisting Wi-Fi networks in unlicensed spectrum and 2) fair service differentiation for downlink LAA-LTE traffic. Numerical results show our FDTM scheme can guarantee the throughput performance of Wi-Fi networks in shared unlicensed spectrum while supporting proportional fairness for the LAA eNBs with different traffic loads.
Collaborative applications of physical systems and algorithms bring the rapid development of cyber physical systems (CPS). Establishing CPS with image classification systems, however, is difficult, because both categories of algorithms, deep learning methods and traditional feature extraction methods, are independent and individual currently. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a fast feature fusion algorithm to satisfy the requirement of CPS in the area of image classification from a comprehensive perspective. First, we fuse the shallow-layer network feature, large pre-trained convolutional neural network feature and traditional image features together by genetic algorithm, in order to guarantee high accuracy with little training time and hardware cost. Second, we increase the distance between different centers by dynamic weight assignment to improve distinguishability of different classes. Third, we propose a partial selection method to reduce the length of the fused feature vectors and to improve the classification accuracy further by centralizing the features within the same class. Finally, experimental results show that our method can achieve high classification accuracy with lower training time and hardware consumption, which can greatly improve the efficiency and flexibility of image classification in cyber physical systems.
Aimed at the problem that the recognition accuracy of the monocular camera is low, we propose a binocular vision recognition algorithm for action recognition based on HART-Net(Human action recognition networks). Firstly, the left and right views obtained by the binocular camera are matched to obtain the depth map of the human body. Then, the depth information is projected onto the three planes, the projection images of three directions are used to construct MHI (motion history image), and are combined into a new image. Finally, we use HART-Net to train a classifier for action recognition. Experimental results show that the binocular recognition algorithm is 18% more accurate than the monocular recognition algorithm.
Content-Based medical image retrieval (CBMIR) is been highly active research area from past few years. The retrieval performance of a CBMIR system crucially depends on the feature representation, which have been extensively studied by researchers for decades. Although a variety of techniques have been proposed, it remains one of the most challenging problems in current CBMIR research, which is mainly due to the well-known "semantic gap" issue that exists between low-level image pixels captured by machines and high-level semantic concepts perceived by human[1]. Recent years have witnessed some important advances of new techniques in machine learning. One important breakthrough technique is known as "deep learning". Unlike conventional machine learning methods that are often using "shallow" architectures, deep learning mimics the human brain that is organized in a deep architecture and processes information through multiple stages of transformation and representation. This means that we do not need to spend enormous energy to extract features manually. In this presentation, we propose a novel framework which uses deep learning to retrieval the medical image to improve the accuracy and speed of a CBIR in integrated RIS/PACS.
Robots rely on the computer vision systems to obtain the environmental information. As a result, the accuracy of the computer vision systems is essential for the control of the robots. Many computer vision systems make use of markers of the well-designed patterns to calculate the system parameters. Undesirably, the noise exists universally, which decreases the calibration accuracy and consequently decreases the accuracy of the computer vision systems. In this paper, we propose a pattern modeling method to remove the noise by decreasing the degree of freedom of the total calibration markers to one. The theorem is proposed and proved. The proposed method can be readily adopted by different computer vision systems, e.g. structured light based computer vision systems and stereo vision based systems.
This paper surveys how to use Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) to hypothesize object location and categorization from images or videos in mobile heterogeneous SoCs. Recently a variety of CNN-based object detection frameworks have demonstrated both increasing accuracy and speed. Though they are making fast progress in high quality image recognition, state-of-the-art CNN-based detection frameworks seldom discuss their hardware-depended aspects and the cost-effectiveness of real-time image analysis in off-the-shelf low-power devices. As the focus of deep learning and convolutional neural nets is shifting to the embedded or mobile applications with limited power and computational resources, scaling down object detection framework and CNNs is becoming a new and important direction. In this work we conduct a comprehensive comparative study of state-of-the-art real-time object detection frameworks about their performance, cost-effectiveness/energy-efficiency (in the metric of mAP/Wh) in off-the-shelf mobile GPU devices. Based on the analysis results and observation in investigation, we propose to adjust the design parameters of such frameworks and employ a design space exploration procedure to maximize the energy-efficiency (mAP/Wh) of real-time object detection solution in mobile GPUs. As shown in the benchmarking result, we successfully boost the energy-efficiency of multiple popular CNN-based detection solutions by maximizing the utility of computation resources of SoC and trading-off between prediction accuracy and energy cost. In the second Low-Power Image Recognition Challenge (LPIRC), our system achieved the best result measured in mAP/Energy on the embedded Jetson TX1 CPU+GPU SoC.
Synthetic aperture radar (SAR) imagery classification is considered as one of the most significant SAR-based application. Developing SAR imagery classification applications based on new datasets requires considerable amount of work, such as feature extraction and validation. The classification processing flow is complex and should be specially designed for different SAR images. To reduce the complexity and improve the processing efficiency, a unified processing scheme based on the deep neural networks (DNN) is proposed. The scheme can be applied to most SAR imagery classification tasks by simply adjusting the model parameters. The proposed scheme is employed to extract building areas from different high resolution SAR images obtained by different sensors based on fully connected feedforward deep network (FDN) and convolutional neural network (CNN). The study results indicate that the proposed classification scheme has high accuracy and efficiency.
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) are very computation-intensive. Recently, a lot of CNN accelerators based on the CNN intrinsic parallelism are proposed. However, we observed that there is a big mismatch between the parallel types supported by computing engine and the dominant parallel types of CNN workloads. This mismatch seriously degrades resource utilization of existing accelerators. In this paper, we propose a flexible dataflow architecture (FlexFlow) that can leverage the complementary effects among feature map, neuron, and synapse parallelism to mitigate the mismatch. We evaluated our design with six typical practical workloads, it acquires 2-10x performance speedup and 2.5-10x power efficiency improvement compared with three state-of-the-art accelerator architectures. Meanwhile, FlexFlow is highly scalable with growing computing engine scale.
Traffic classification is the first step for network anomaly detection or network based intrusion detection system and plays an important role in network security domain. In this paper we first presented a new taxonomy of traffic classification from an artificial intelligence perspective, and then proposed a malware traffic classification method using convolutional neural network by taking traffic data as images. This method needed no hand-designed features but directly took raw traffic as input data of classifier. To the best of our knowledge this interesting attempt is the first time of applying representation learning approach to malware traffic classification using raw traffic data. We determined that the best type of traffic representation is session with all layers through eight experiments. The method is validated in two scenarios including three types of classifiers and the experiment results show that our proposed method can satisfy the accuracy requirement of practical application.
In phrase-based machine translation (PBMT) systems, the reordering table and phrase table are very large and redundant. Unlike most previous works which aim to filter phrase table, this paper proposes a novel deep neural network model to prune reordering table. We cast the task as a deep learning problem where we jointly train two models: a generative model to implement rule embedding and a discriminative model to classify rules. The main contribution of this paper is that we optimize the reordering model in PBMT by filtering reordering table using a recursive autoencoder model. To evaluate the performance of the proposed model, we performed it on public corpus tomeasure its reordering ability. The experimental results show that our approach obtains high improvement in BLEU score with less scale of reordering table on two language pairs: English-Chinese (+0.28) and Uyghur-Chinese (+ 0.33) MT.
Reconfigurable robots with independent locomotion and manipulation ability (RRLMA) refer to the reconfigurable robots capable of locomoting and performing manipulation tasks either individually or in a group. It takes great effort to derive the dynamic model manually because frequent reconfiguration of the group is needed to adapt to different environments, for which the dynamic model has to be re-established accordingly. This paper presents a general dynamic formulation for RRLMA. The dynamic model of an independent module is first developed in the Lagrangian framework using techniques of local Lie algebra coordinates, which is free of singularity and shows the structure of the dynamic coupling explicitly. Then, inspiration from multifingered grasp is drawn to establish the constraint equations that describe the interactions between modules, while the general joint model is used to describe a variety of connections. The closed-form dynamic model has broad generality to deal with configurations with arbitrary topologies, and also allows automatic generation. Moreover, the structure of the dynamics allows the use of open-chain solutions to facilitate simulation. The validity of the dynamic model is verified by a simulation. Case study shows the effectiveness of the dynamic model in configuration optimization.
In this paper, a decentralised tracking control (DTC) scheme is developed for unknown large-scale nonlinear systems by using observer-critic structure-based adaptive dynamic programming. The control consists of local desired control, local tracking error control and a compensator. By introducing the local neural network observer, the subsystem dynamics can be identified. The identified subsystems can be used for the local desired control and the control input matrix, which is used in local tracking error control. Meanwhile, Hamiltonian-Jacobi-Bellman equation can be solved by constructing a critic neural network. Thus, the local tracking error control can be derived directly. To compensate the overall error caused by substitution, observation and approximation of the local tracking error control, an adaptive robustifying term is employed. Simulation examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed DTC scheme.
In this paper, we propose time series prediction methods for depth-averaged current velocities (DACVs) of underwater gliders. Based on historical DACV data, these methods can predict the DACVs of future profiles with good performance. Regarding DACVs as time series, we use backpropagation neural network and least squares support vector machine (LSSVM) methods to predict the DACVs. To obtain better prediction performance, the features of DACVs are considered, and we use empirical mode decomposition (EMD) to decompose the time series into several sub-series. Then, the two methods are reused to predict each sub-series, and the results of all the sub-series with each method are added. Based on the real-time DACVs obtained from the simulation environment and the DACVs obtained from sea trials, we test and verify the four methods. The results demonstrate that all the methods exhibit a good prediction performance for conditions in which ocean currents are relatively regular; whereas in other cases, EMD-LSSVM shows inherent robustness and superiority compared with the other three methods.
Diagnostic ultrasound offers great improvements in diagnostic accuracy and robustness. However, it is difficult to make subjective and uniform diagnoses, because the quality of ultrasound images can be easily influenced by machine settings, the characteristics of ultrasonic waves, the interactions between ultrasound and body tissues, and other uncontrollable factors. In this paper, we propose a novel liver fibrosis classification method based on transfer learning (IT) using VGGNet and a deep classifier called fully connected network (FCNet). In case of insufficient samples, deep features extracted using TL strategy can provide sufficient classification information. These deep features are then sent to FCNet for the classification of different liver fibrosis statuses. With this framework, tests show that our deep features combined with the FCNet can provide suitable information to enable the construction of the most accurate prediction model when compared with other methods.
In this paper, we describe a heading direction correction algorithm for a tracked mobile robot. To save hardware resources as far as possible, the mobile robot's wrist camera is used as the only sensor, which is rotated to face stairs. An ensemble heading deviation detector is proposed to help the mobile robot correct its heading direction. To improve the generalization ability, a multi-scale Gabor filter is used to process the input image previously. Final deviation result is acquired by applying the majority vote strategy on all the classifiers' results. The experimental results show that our detector is able to enable the mobile robot to correct its heading direction adaptively while it is climbing the stairs.
Ultrasound imaging has become one of the most popular medical imaging modalities with numerous diagnostic applications. However, ultrasound (US) image segmentation, which is the essential process for further analysis, is a challenging task due to the poor image quality. In this paper, we propose a new segmentation scheme to combine both region- and edge-based information into the robust graph-based (RGB) segmentation method. The only interaction required is to select two diagonal points to determine a region of interest (ROI) on the original image. The ROI image is smoothed by a bilateral filter and then contrast-enhanced by histogram equalization. Then, the enhanced image is filtered by pyramid mean shift to improve homogeneity. With the optimization of particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm, the RGB segmentation method is performed to segment the filtered image. The segmentation results of our method have been compared with the corresponding results obtained by three existing approaches, and four metrics have been used to measure the segmentation performance. The experimental results show that the method achieves the best overall performance and gets the lowest ARE (10.77%), the second highest TPVF (85.34%), and the second lowest FPVF (4.48%).
The most popular noninvasive Brain Robot Interaction (BRI) technology uses the electroencephalogram- (EEG-) based Brain Computer Interface (BCI), to serve as an additional communication channel, for robot control via brainwaves. This technology is promising for elderly or disabled patient assistance with daily life. The key issue of a BRI system is to identify human mental activities, by decoding brainwaves, acquired with an EEG device. Compared with other BCI applications, such as word speller, the development of these applications may be more challenging since control of robot systems via brainwaves must consider surrounding environment feedback in real-time, robot mechanical kinematics, and dynamics, as well as robot control architecture and behavior. This article reviews the major techniques needed for developing BRI systems. In this review article, we first briefly introduce the background and development of mind-controlled robot technologies. Second, we discuss the EEG- based brain signal models with respect to generating principles, evoking mechanisms, and experimental paradigms. Subsequently, we review in detail commonly used methods for decoding brain signals, namely, preprocessing, feature extraction, and feature classification, and summarize several typical application examples. Next, we describe a few BRI applications, including wheelchairs, manipulators, drones, and humanoid robots with respect to synchronous and asynchronous BCI-based techniques. Finally, we address some existing problems and challenges with future BRI techniques.
In real-world manufacturing, disruptions are often encountered during the execution of a predetermined schedule, leading to the degradation of its optimality and feasibility. This study presents a hybrid approach for flexible job-shop scheduling/rescheduling problems under dynamic environment. The approach, coined as HMA' is a combination of multi-agent system (MAS) negotiation and ant colony optimisation (ACO). A fully distributed MAS structure has been constructed to support the solution-finding process by negotiation among the agents. The features of ACO are introduced into the negotiation mechanism in order to improve the performance of the schedule. Experimental studies have been carried out to evaluate the performance of the approach for scheduling and rescheduling under different types of disruptions. Different rescheduling policies are compared and discussed. The results have shown that the proposed approach is a competitive method for flexible job-shop scheduling/rescheduling for both schedule optimality and computation efficiency.
In this paper, we have proposed a novel traffic sign recognition algorithm based on sparse representation and dictionary learning. In the past period of research and applications of traffic sign recognition, most of the traffic sign recognition algorithms are based on statistical learning, neural networks and template matching algorithm. In these algorithms, they need high-dimensional mapping during classification, resulting in huge amount of calculation. Meanwhile, when the external environment changes, such as illumination, deformation and occlusion, the recognition rate will be further reduced. The proposed sparse representation theory has much better performance to solve the problems of external environment changed and while we use dictionary learning method to build a traffic sign over-complete redundant dictionary, the experimental results clearly showed that the algorithm we proposed has much better performance than traditional algorithm and also has much higher recognition rates.
Rhododendrons are an important genus of alpine flowering plant used ornamentally worldwide. The purpose of this study is to improve the application of remote-sensing technology for investigating and monitoring mountain rhododendron germplasm. Research area is the Baili Rhododendron National Forest Park located in the karst region of Guizhou Province, China. Field spectrometry was used to acquire spectral data for 20 samples extracted from eight rhododendron species. A deep-learning algorithm from a discriminative restricted Boltzmann machine was used with the original spectral data from the different rhododendron species to obtain the optimal parameters for the model. Simultaneously, the data processing methodology from the discriminative restricted Boltzmann machine was used to recognize the original spectra, the noise smoothed spectra, and the first- and second-order spectral derivatives with accuracies of 88.54%, 88.54%, 93.75%, and 90.62%, respectively. The results show that the discriminative restricted Boltzmann machine is effective in recognizing spectral information for different rhododendron species. Changes in the first-order derivative gave the most accurate classification, but changes in the second-order derivative significantly reduced the sample training time. Changes in both derivatives therefore proved useful in recognizing and extracting particular features of the plant species. This research may therefore further support the use of hyperspectral remote-sensing imagery for investigating and monitoring germplasm, species classification, and physiological parameter inversions for rhododendrons from various mountain regions of China.
Serotonergic innervation of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) modulates neuronal activity and PFC functions. However, the cellular mechanism for serotonergic modulation of neuronal excitability remains unclear. We performed patch-clamp recording at the axon of layer-5 pyramidal neurons in rodent PFC slices. We found surprisingly that the activation of 5-HT1A receptors selectively inhibits Na+ currents obtained at the axon initial segment (AIS) but not those at the axon trunk. In addition, Na+ channel subtype Na(V)1.2 but not Na(V)1.6 at the AIS is selectively modulated by 5-HT1A receptors. Further experiments revealed that the inhibitory effect is attributable to a depolarizing shift of the activation curve and a facilitation of slow inactivation of AIS Na+ currents. Consistently, dual somatic and axonal recording and simulation results demonstrate that the activation of 5-HT1A receptors could decrease the success rate of action potential (AP) backpropagation toward the somatodendritic compartments, enhancing the segregation of axonal and dendritic activities. Together, our results reveal a selective modulation of Na(V)1.2 distributed at the proximal AIS region and AP backpropagation by 5-HT1A receptors, suggesting a potential mechanism for serotonergic regulation of functional polarization in the dendro-axonal axis, synaptic plasticity and PFC functions.
Combined with the 3D model of aerial refuelling drogue target, this paper proposes a method for measuring the position and orientation based on monocular vision. The shape of the drogue's inner dark part is circular and its image is a circle or an ellipse in the image space. The contour points of the dark part are extracted in the image space and the adaptive elliptical parameter extraction algorithm based on RANSAC is adopted to get the parameters of the ellipse in the image space. Based on the principle of pinhole imaging and the dimension of the drogue's dark part, a visual cone is established and the position and orientation of the drogue's inner dark part can be deduced by using the geometric relationships. The experiments for measuring the drogue's position and orientation are carried on in a platform composed of two KUKA robots, and the experiment results verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.
The Internet based cyber-physical world has profoundly changed the information environment for the development of artificial intelligence (AI), bringing a new wave of AI research and promoting it into the new era of AI 2.0. As one of the most prominent characteristics of research in AI 2.0 era, crowd intelligence has attracted much attention from both industry and research communities. Specifically, crowd intelligence provides a novel problem-solving paradigm through gathering the intelligence of crowds to address challenges. In particular, due to the rapid development of the sharing economy, crowd intelligence not only becomes a new approach to solving scientific challenges, but has also been integrated into all kinds of application scenarios in daily life, e.g., online-to-offline (O2O) application, real-time traffic monitoring, and logistics management. In this paper, we survey existing studies of crowd intelligence. First, we describe the concept of crowd intelligence, and explain its relationship to the existing related concepts, e.g., crowdsourcing and human computation. Then, we introduce four categories of representative crowd intelligence platforms. We summarize three core research problems and the state-of-the-art techniques of crowd intelligence. Finally, we discuss promising future research directions of crowd intelligence.
Cross-media analysis and reasoning is an active research area in computer science, and a promising direction for artificial intelligence. However, to the best of our knowledge, no existing work has summarized the state-of-the-art methods for cross-media analysis and reasoning or presented advances, challenges, and future directions for the field. To address these issues, we provide an overview as follows: (1) theory and model for cross-media uniform representation; (2) cross-media correlation understanding and deep mining; (3) cross-media knowledge graph construction and learning methodologies; (4) cross-media knowledge evolution and reasoning; (5) cross-media description and generation; (6) cross-media intelligent engines; and (7) cross-media intelligent applications. By presenting approaches, advances, and future directions in cross-media analysis and reasoning, our goal is not only to draw more attention to the state-of-the-art advances in the field, but also to provide technical insights by discussing the challenges and research directions in these areas.
Perception is the interaction interface between an intelligent system and the real world. Without sophisticated and flexible perceptual capabilities, it is impossible to create advanced artificial intelligence (AI) systems. For the next-generation AI, called 'AI 2.0', one of the most significant features will be that AI is empowered with intelligent perceptual capabilities, which can simulate human brain's mechanisms and are likely to surpass human brain in terms of performance. In this paper, we briefly review the state-of-the-art advances across different areas of perception, including visual perception, auditory perception, speech perception, and perceptual information processing and learning engines. On this basis, we envision several R&D trends in intelligent perception for the forthcoming era of AI 2.0, including: (1) human-like and transhuman active vision; (2) auditory perception and computation in an actual auditory setting; (3) speech perception and computation in a natural interaction setting; (4) autonomous learning of perceptual information; (5) large-scale perceptual information processing and learning platforms; and (6) urban omnidirectional intelligent perception and reasoning engines. We believe these research directions should be highlighted in the future plans for AI 2.0.
Intelligent unmanned autonomous systems are some of the most important applications of artificial intelligence (AI). The development of such systems can significantly promote innovation in AI technologies. This paper introduces the trends in the development of intelligent unmanned autonomous systems by summarizing the main achievements in each technological platform. Furthermore, we classify the relevant technologies into seven areas, including AI technologies, unmanned vehicles, unmanned aerial vehicles, service robots, space robots, marine robots, and unmanned workshops/intelligent plants. Current trends and developments in each area are introduced.
Automated polyp detection in colonoscopy videos has been demonstrated to be a promising way for colorectal cancer prevention and diagnosis. Traditional manual screening is time consuming, operator dependent, and error prone; hence, automated detection approach is highly demanded in clinical practice. However, automated polyp detection is very challenging due to high intraclass variations in polyp size, color, shape, and texture, and low interclass variations between polyps and hard mimics. In this paper, we propose a novel offline and online three-dimensional (3-D) deep learning integration framework by leveraging the 3-D fully convolutional network (3D-FCN) to tackle this challenging problem. Compared with the previous methods employing hand-crafted features or 2-D convolutional neural network, the 3D-FCN is capable of learning more representative spatio-temporal features from colonoscopy videos, and hence has more powerful discrimination capability. More importantly, we propose a novel online learning scheme to deal with the problem of limited training data by harnessing the specific information of an input video in the learning process. We integrate offline and online learning to effectively reduce the number of false positives generated by the offline network and further improve the detection performance. Extensive experiments on the dataset of MICCAI 2015 Challenge on Polyp Detection demonstrated the better performance of our method when compared with other competitors.
This paper presents the design and evaluation process of a self-learning system for local ramp metering control. This system is developed on the basis of reinforcement learning (RL) and can deal with the problem of on-ramp queue management through a continuous learning process. A general framework of the system design including the definition of RL elements and an algorithm that can accomplish the learning process is proposed. Simulation tests are carried out to evaluate the performance of the new system. In terms of the total time spent by road users, the new system can achieve a 30% reduction from the situation of no control, a result which is competitive with the widely accepted algorithm ALINEA. Meanwhile, simulation results show that the new system can keep on-ramp queues strictly under a series of pre-specified constraints, which proves its capability of managing on-ramp queues.
In this study, we propose a novel fast learning data-driven method for the design of interval type-2 fuzzy logic system (IT2FLS). In order to accelerate the learning speed, we present a parallel mechanism to generate the antecedents of the IT2FLS and the least square method based learning algorithm to optimize the consequents. Firstly, driven by different sub-data sets, corresponding type-1 fuzzy logic systems (T1FLSs) which have the same initial fuzzy partition (thus the same initial fuzzy rule base) are parallelly obtained through the popular ANFIS method. Then, an ensembling strategy is proposed to form the type-2 fuzzy partition for each input variable through merging corresponding type-1 fuzzy sets (T1FSs) in the type-1 fuzzy partitions of the learned T1FLSs. By this strategy, the antecedents of the IT2FLS are determined and then fixed, however, the consequent parameters still need to be optimized. To achieve both excellent performance and fast training speed, a least square method based learning algorithm is provided for the optimization of the consequent parameters. Finally, three benchmark problems and one real-world application are given, and detailed comparisons with some well performed methods are made. Simulation and comparison results have verified the effectiveness and superiorities of the proposed method.
Wetland inundation is crucial to the survival and prosperity of fauna and flora communities in wetland ecosystems. Even small changes in surface inundation may result in a substantial impact on the wetland ecosystem characteristics and function. This study presented a novel method for wetland inundation mapping at a subpixel scale in a typical wetland region on the Zoige Plateau, northeast Tibetan Plateau, China, by combining use of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and Landsat-8 Operational Land Imager (OLI) data. A reference subpixel inundation percentage (SIP) map at a Landsat-8 OLI 30 m pixel scale was first generated using high resolution UAV data (0.16 m). The reference SIP map and Landsat-8 OLI imagery were then used to develop SIP estimation models using three different retrieval methods (Linear spectral unmixing (LSU), Artificial neural networks (ANN), and Regression tree (RT)). Based on observations from 2014, the estimation results indicated that the estimation model developed with RT method could provide the best fitting results for the mapping wetland SIP (R-2 = 0.933, RMSE = 8.73%) compared to the other two methods. The proposed model with RT method was validated with observations from 2013, and the estimated SIP was highly correlated with the reference SIP, with an R-2 of 0.986 and an RMSE of 9.84%. This study highlighted the value of high resolution UAV data and globally and freely available Landsat data in combination with the developed approach for monitoring finely gradual inundation change patterns in wetland ecosystems.
The deformation capability of a robot has been a long-term research interest in robotic fields along with developing its controllability and adaptability. So far, many different structural designs and materials had been created to build a flexible and compliant robot. Here, we demonstrate a series of highly deformable locomotions overcoming sharp corner or small gap via EGaIn liquid metal materials, which we dubbed "liquid metal worm." The worm can be controlled by exterior voltages and can veer in a loop channel. Besides, it can narrow and fit through a highly confined gap five times thinner than its own size and return to its original shape and movability. The size of the worm can also be adjusted with different volumes of liquid metal, which varies from similar to 0.1 mL to similar to 1 mL. In addition, other solid functional structures or modified particles can be mounted according to previous research. Several phenomena regarding reconfigurational reversing of the moving direction due to metal droplet morphology were disclosed with the interpreted mechanism. The worm realized a biomimetic deformative characteristic and may have profound implications in other fields such as vascular robots and microfluidics. It is expected that the present work could contribute to the development of soft robots and their miniaturization in the coming future.
In this paper, we propose three automatic modulation classification classifiers based on order-statistics and reduced order-statistics, where the order-statistics are the random variables sorted by ascending order and the reduced order-statistics represent a subset of the original order-statistics. Specifically, the linear support vector machine classifier applies the linear combination of the order-statistics of the received signals, while the approximate maximum likelihood and the backpropagation neural networks (BPNNs) classifier resort to the reduced order-statistics to decrease the computational complexity. Moreover, BPNN is applicable for modulation classification both in known and unknown channel scenarios. It is shown that in the known channel scenario, the proposed classifiers provide a good tradeoff between performance and computational complexity, while in the unknown channel scenario, the proposed BPNN classifier outperforms the expectation maximization classifier in terms of both classification performance and computational complexity. Simulations results are provided to evaluate the proposed classifiers.
Assessing the failure potential of slopes is of great significance for land use and management. The objective of this paper is to develop a novel model for evaluating the failure probability of slopes based on a relevance vector machine (RVM), with a special attention to the characteristics of failed slopes along the lower reaches of the Jinsha River, close to the Wudongde dam site. Seven parameters that influence the occurrence of landslides were selected as environmental factors; namely lithology, slope angle, slope height, slope aspect, slope structure, distance from faults, and land use. A total of 55 landslides mapped in the study area were used to train and test the RVM model. The results suggest that the accuracy of the model in predicting the failure probability of slopes, using both training and testing data sets, is very high and deemed satisfactory. To validate the model performance, it was applied to 28 landslide cases identified in the upper reaches of the Jinsha River, where environmental and geological conditions are similar to those of the study area. An accuracy of approximately 92.9% was obtained, which demonstrates that the RVM model has a good generalization performance.
Long-term streamflow forecasting is crucial to reservoir scheduling and water resources management. However, due to the complexity of internally physical mechanisms in streamflow process and the influence of many random factors, long-term streamflow forecasting is a difficult issue. In the article, we mainly investigated the ability of the Relevance Vector Machine (RVM) model and its applicability for long-term streamflow forecasting. We chose the Dahuofang (DHF) Reservoir in Northern China and the Danjiangkou (DJK) Reservoir in Central China as the study sites, and selected the 500 hpa geopotential height in the northern hemisphere and the sea surface temperatures in the North Pacific as the predictor factors of the RVM model and the Support Vector Machine (SVM) model, and then conducted annual streamflow forecasting. Results indicate that forecasting results in the DHF Reservoir is much better than that in the DJK Reservoir when using SVM, because streamflow process in the latter basin has a magnitude bigger than 1000 m(3)/s. Comparatively, accurate forecasting results in both the two basins can be gotten using the RVM model, with the Nash Sutcliffe efficiency coefficient bigger than 0.7, and they are much better than those gotten from the SVM model. As a result, the RVM model can be an effective approach for long-term streamflow forecasting, and it also has a wide applicability for the streamflow process with a discharge magnitude from dozen to thousand cubic meter per second.
Flooding contributes to tremendous hazards every year; more accurate forecasting may significantly mitigate the damages and loss caused by flood disasters. Current hydrological models are either purely knowledge-based or data-driven. A combination of data-driven method (artificial neural networks in this paper) and knowledge-based method (traditional hydrological model) may booster simulation accuracy. In this study, we proposed a new back-propagation (BP) neural network algorithm and applied it in the semi-distributed Xinanjiang (XAJ) model. The improved hydrological model is capable of updating the flow forecasting error without losing the leading time. The proposed method was tested in a real case study for both single period corrections and real-time corrections. The results reveal that the proposed method could significantly increase the accuracy of flood forecasting and indicate that the global correction effect is superior to the second-order autoregressive correction method in real-time correction.
In this study, near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy was applied to efficiently and non-destructively identify Shandong green tea origins coupled with three different regression tools. Analysis results indicated that partial least squares (PLS) had better performance than back propagation artificial neural network (BP-ANN) and support vector machine (SVM). For PLS, the accuracies of identification were up to 100% for both training and testing. The results sufficiently demonstrate that NIR spectroscopy can be efficiently utilized for the non-destructive identification of green tea origins.
Hyperspectral remote sensing has a strong ability in information expression, so it provides better support for classification. The methods proposed to deal the hyperspectral data classification problems were build one by one. However, most of them committed to spectral feature extraction that means wasting some valuable information and poor classification results. Thus, we should pay more attention to multi-features. And on the other hand, due to extreme requirements for classification accuracy, we should hierarchically explore more deep features. The first thought is machine learning, but the traditional machine learning classifiers, like the support vector machine, are not friendly to larger inputs and features. This paper introduces a hybrid of principle component analysis (PCA), guided filtering, deep learning architecture into hyperspectral data classification. In detail, as a mature dimension reduction architecture, PCA is capable of reducing the redundancy of hyperspectral information. In addition, guided filtering provides a passage to spatial-dominated information concisely and effectively. According to the stacked autoencoders which is a efficient deep learning architecture, deep-level multi-features are not in mystery. Two public data set PaviaU and Salinas are used to test the proposed algorithm. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed spectral-spatial hyperspectral image classification method can show competitive performance. Multi-feature learning based on deep learning exhibits a great potential on the classification of hyperspectral images. When the number of samples is 30 % and the iteration number is over 1000, the accuracy rates for both of the two data set are over 99 %.
A conjunction system based on triboelectric nanogenerator (TENG) and dielectric elastomer actuator (DEA) is a promising demonstration for the application of TENG in the field of electronic skin and soft robotics. In this paper, a triboelectric tunable smart optical modulator (SOM) has been proposed based on this TENG-DEA system. The SOM has a very simple structure of an elastomer film and electrodes made of dispersed silver nanowires. Owing to the voltage induced rippling of the elastomer, the output of the TENG for a contact-separation motion at a velocity ranging from 0.5 to 10 cm s(-1) can decrease the SOM's transmittance from 72% to 40%, which is enough for realizing the function of privacy protection. Meanwhile, an effective operation method is also proposed for this SOM. By serially connecting an accessory DEA to the SOM, an external bias voltage can be applied on the SOM to tune its "threshold" voltage and the output from TENG can smoothly regulate the transmittance on the basis of the bias. The proposed operation method has excellent applicability for all DEA-based devices, which can promote the practical study of TENG-DEA system in the field of micro-electro-mechanical system and human-robots interaction.
This paper presents an algorithm to optimize the base position of a mobile manipulator to meet the requirements of local painting tasks. Considering the physical limits and singularity of the manipulator, the feasible base positions are first discretely calculated with the given poses of the end effector by inverse kinematics. Then, the joint-level performance criteria are proposed with respect to the requirements of the painting process. The weight coefficients are also determined by the critic method to balance the contribution of every criterion. Thus, the globally near-optimal base position is selected by sorting all feasible positions according to the evaluation criteria. The experimental results show that the planning result is well executed and has an acceptable computation time, thus demonstrating that the algorithm is both practical and effective compared with previous methods.
Many companies are deploying services largely based on machine-learning algorithms for sophisticated processing of large amounts of data, either for consumers or industry. The state-of-the-art and most popular such machine-learning algorithms are Convolutional and Deep Neural Networks (CNNs and DNNs), which are known to be computationally and memory intensive. A number of neural network accelerators have been recently proposed which can offer high computational capacity/area ratio, but which remain hampered by memory accesses. However, unlike the memory wall faced by processors on general-purpose workloads, the CNNs and DNNs memory footprint, while large, is not beyond the capability of the on-chip storage of a multi-chip system. This property, combined with the CNN/DNN algorithmic characteristics, can lead to high internal bandwidth and low external communications, which can in turn enable high-degree parallelism at a reasonable area cost. In this article, we introduce a custom multi-chip machine-learning architecture along those lines, and evaluate performance by integrating electrical and optical inter-chip interconnects separately. We show that, on a subset of the largest known neural network layers, it is possible to achieve a speedup of 656.63 x over a GPU, and reduce the energy by 184. 05 x on average for a 64-chip system. We implement the node down to the place and route at 28 nm, containing a combination of custom storage and computational units, with electrical inter-chip interconnects.
Vehicle detection in remote sensing images is a tough task and of great significance due to the fast increasing number of vehicles occurring in big cities. Recently, convolutional neural network (CNN)-based methods have achieved excellent performance in classification task due to their powerful abilities in high-level feature extraction. However, overfitting is a serious problem in CNN when applying complicated fully-connected layers, especially when the quantity of training samples is limited. In order to tackle this problem, a denoizing-based CNN called DCNN is proposed in this letter. More specially, a CNN with one fully-connected layer is pre-trained first for feature extraction. After that, features of this fully-connected layer are corrupted and used to pre-train a stacked denoizing autoencoder (SDAE) in an unsupervised way. Then, the pre-trained SDAE is added into the CNN as the fully-connected layer. After fine-tuning, DCNN can make the extracted features more robust and the detecting rate higher. With the help of our proposed locating method, vehicles can be detected effectively even when they are parked in a residential area. Comparative experiments demonstrate that our method has achieved state-of-the-art performance.
To operate an in-orbit spacecraft, the spacecraft status has to be monitored autonomously by collecting and analysing real-time data, and then detecting abnormities and malfunctions of system components. To develop an information system for spacecraft state detection, we investigate the feasibility of using ontology-based artificial intelligence in the system development. We propose a new modelling technique based on the semantic web, agent, scenarios and ontologies model. In modelling, the subjects of astronautics fields are classified, corresponding agents and scenarios are defined, and they are connected by the semantic web to analyse data and detect failures. We introduce the modelling methodologies and the resulted framework of the status detection information system in this paper. We discuss system components as well as their interactions in details. The system has been prototyped and tested to illustrate its feasibility and effectiveness. The proposed modelling technique is generic which can be extended and applied to the system development of other large-scale and complex information systems.
The main task of structural reliability analysis is to estimate failure probability of a studied structure taking randomness of input variables into account. To consider structural behavior practically, numerical models become more and more complicated and time-consuming, which increases the difficulty of reliability analysis. Therefore, sequential strategies of design of experiment (DoE) are raised. In this research, a new learning function, named least improvement function (LIF), is proposed to update DoE of Kriging based reliability analysis method. LIF values how much the accuracy of estimated failure probability will be improved if adding a given point into DoE. It takes both statistical information provided by the Kriging model and the joint probability density function of input variables into account, which is the most important difference from the existing learning functions. Maximum point of LIF is approximately determined with Markov Chain Monte Carlo(MCMC) simulation. A new reliability analysis method is developed based on the Kriging model, in which LIF, MCMC and Monte Carlo(MC) simulation are employed. Three examples are analyzed. Results show that LIF and the new method proposed in this research are very efficient when dealing with nonlinear performance function, small probability, complicated limit state and engineering problems with high dimension. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Currently more and more countries focus on the research on robotics modularity. The research on the modularity technology and related standards for service robots is of great significance. This paper introduces the progress about modularity standardization of service robots in China, including the related projects, general principles of modularity design for service robots, modularized universal architecture of service robots and corresponding 8 national standards. In our opinion, the implementation of modularity standards for service robots will bring innovation and change to the traditional model of developing, producing, integrating, selling, and providing after-sales services for service robots. It will lead to the achievement of "rapid integration, lower costs, and ease of maintenance" in the whole life cycle of service robots.
In this paper, a novel iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm, called generalised policy iteration ADP algorithm, is developed to solve optimal tracking control problems for discrete-time nonlinear systems. The idea is to use two iteration procedures, including an i-iteration and a j-iteration, to obtain the iterative tracking control laws and the iterative value functions. By system transformation, we first convert the optimal tracking control problem into an optimal regulation problem. Then the generalised policy iteration ADP algorithm, which is a general idea of interacting policy and value iteration algorithms, is introduced to deal with the optimal regulation problem. The convergence and optimality properties of the generalised policy iteration algorithm are analysed. Three neural networks are used to implement the developed algorithm. Finally, simulation examples are given to illustrate the performance of the present algorithm.
Real-time adaptive optics is a technology for enhancing the resolution of ground-based optical telescopes and overcoming the disturbance of atmospheric turbulence. The performance of the system is limited by delay errors induced by the servo system and photoelectrons noise of wavefront sensor. In order to cut these delay errors, this paper proposes a novel model to forecast the future control voltages of the de formable mirror. The predictive model is constructed by a multi-layered back propagation network with Bayesian regularization (BRBP). For the purpose of parallel computation and less disturbance, we adopt a number of sub-BP neural networks to substitute the whole network. The Bayesian regularized network assigns a probability to the network weights, allowing the network to automatically and optimally penalize excessively complex models. The simulation results show that the BRBP introduces smaller mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) and mean square errors (MSE) than other typical algorithms. Meanwhile, real data analysis results show that the BRBP model has strong generalization capability and parallelism. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Recent deep learning based methods have achieved the state-of-the-art performance for handwritten Chinese character recognition (HCCR) by learning discriminative representations directly from raw data. Nevertheless, we believe that the long-and-well investigated domain-specific knowledge should still help to boost the performance of HCCR. By integrating the traditional normalization-cooperated direction-decomposed feature map (directMap) with the deep convolutional neural network (convNet), we are able to obtain new highest accuracies for both online and offline HCCR on the ICDAR-2013 competition database. With this new framework, we can eliminate the needs for data augmentation and model ensemble, which are widely used in other systems to achieve their best results. This makes our framework to be efficient and effective for both training and testing. Furthermore, although directMap+ convNet can achieve the best results and surpass human-level performance, we show that writer adaptation in this case is still effective. A new adaptation layer is proposed to reduce the mismatch between training and test data on a particular source layer. The adaptation process can be efficiently and effectively implemented in an unsupervised manner. By adding the adaptation layer into the pre-trained convNet, it can adapt to the new handwriting styles of particular writers, and the recognition accuracy can be further improved consistently and significantly. This paper gives an overview and comparison of recent deep learning based approaches for HCCR, and also sets new benchmarks for both online and offline HCCR. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, multimodal deep learning for solar radio burst classification is proposed. We make the first attempt to build multimodal learning network to learn the joint representation of the solar radio spectrums captured from different frequency channels, which are treated as different modalities. In order to learn the representation of each modality and the correlation and interaction between different modalities, autoencoder together with the structured regularization is used to enforce and learn the modality-specific sparsity and density of each modality, respectively. Fully connected layers are further employed to exploit the relationships between different modalities for the joint representation generation of the solar radio spectrums. Based on the learned joint representation, solar radio burst classification is performed. With the validation on the constructed solar radio spectrum database, experimental results have demonstrated that the proposed multimodal learning network can effectively learn the representation of the solar radio spectrum, and improve the classification accuracy. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We investigate the problem of lung nodule malignancy suspiciousness (the likelihood of nodule malignancy) classification using thoracic Computed Tomography (CT) images. Unlike traditional studies primarily relying on cautious nodule segmentation and time-consuming feature extraction, we tackle a more challenging task on directly modeling raw nodule patches and building an end-to-end machine learning architecture for classifying lung nodule malignancy suspiciousness. We present a Multi-crop Convolutional Neural Network (MC-CNN) to automatically extract nodule salient information by employing a novel multi-crop pooling strategy which crops different regions from convolutional feature maps and then applies max-pooling different times. Extensive experimental results show that the proposed method not only achieves state-of-the-art nodule suspiciousness classification performance, but also effectively characterizes nodule semantic attributes (subtlety and margin) and nodule diameter which are potentially helpful in modeling nodule malignancy. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Photoactuators with integrated optical-to-mechanical energy conversion capacity have attracted growing research interest in the last few decades due to their unique features of remote control and their wide applications ranging from bionic robots, biomedical devices, and switches to motors. For the photoactuator design, the energy conversion route and structure assembly are two important parts, which directly affect the performance of the photoactuators. In particular, the architectural designs at the molecular, nano-, micro-, and macro-level, are found to play a significant role in accumulating molecular-scale strain/stress to macroscale strain/stress. Here, recent progress on photoactuators based on photochemical and photothermal effects is summarized, followed by a discussion of the important assembly strategies for the amplification of the photoresponsive components at nanoscale to macroscopic scale motions. The application advancement of current photoactuators is also presented.
In this paper, we propose a novel deep networks, multi-feature fusion deep networks (MFFDN), based on denoising autoencoder. MFFDN significantly reduces the classification error while giving the interpretability of the hidden-layer feature representation in learning process. Comparing with the traditional denoising autoencoder, MFFDN mainly shows the following advantages: (1) minimally retaining a certain amount of "information" constrained to a given form about its input; (2) explicitly interpreting the meaning of the feature representation in one hidden layer; (3) enhancing discriminativeness of the whole networks. At last, the experiments analysis on MNIST, CIFAR-10 and SVHN prove the state-of-the-art performance improvement of MFFDN with the advantages minimally retaining "information" constraint and the interpreted hidden feature representation. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a rear-end collision control model is proposed using the fuzzy logic control scheme. Through detailed analysis of car-following cases, our fuzzy control system is established with reasonable control rules. Furthermore, a genetic algorithm is introduced into the fuzzy rules refining process to reduce the computational complexity while maintaining accuracy. Numerical results indicate that our genetic algorithm-optimized fuzzy logic controller outperforms the traditional fuzzy logic controller in terms of better safety guarantee and higher traffic efficiency. Copyright (C) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Water eutrophication has become a worldwide environmental problem in recent years. Once a water body is eutrophicated, it will lose its primary functions and subsequently influence sustainable development of society and economy. Therefore, analysis of eutrophication becomes one of the most essential issues at present. With the ability to deal with vague and uncertain information, and express knowledge in a rule form, the rough set theory (RST) has been widely applied in diverse domains. The advantage of RST is that it can compress the rule and remove needless features by reduction inference rule. By this way, the rule gets effectively simplified and inference efficiency gets improved. However, if data amount is relatively big, it could be a process with large calculated amount to search rules by looking up tables. Petri nets (PNs) possesses so powerful parallel reasoning ability that inference result could be obtained rapidly merely by simple matrix manipulation with no need for searching rules by looking up tables. In this work, an integrated RPN model combining RST with PN was used to analyze relations between degrees of water eutrophication level and influence factors in the Pengxi River of Three Gorges Reservoir. It was shown that the RPN model could analyze water eutrophicaion accurately and quickly, and yield decision rules for the decision-makers at water purification plants of the water quality and assist them in making more cost-effective decisions.
The microwave humidity and temperature sounder (MWHTS) on the Fengyun (FY)-3C satellite measures the outgoing radiance from the Earth's surface and atmospheric constituents. MWHTS, which makes measurements in the isolated oxygen absorption line near 118 GHz and the vicinity of the strong water vapor absorption line around 183 GHz, can provide fine vertical distribution structures of both atmospheric humidity and temperature. However, in order to obtain the accurate soundings of humidity and temperature by physical retrieval methods, the bias between the observed and simulated radiance calculated by the radiative transfer model from the background or first guess profiles must be corrected. In this study, two bias correction methods are developed through the correlation analysis between MWHTS measurements and air mass identified by the first guess profiles of the physical inversion; one is the linear regression correction (LRC), and the other is the neural network correction (NNC), representing the linear and nonlinear relationships between MWHTS measurements and air mass, respectively. The correction methods have been applied to MWHTS observed brightness temperatures over the geographic area (180 degrees-180 degrees E, 60 degrees S-60 degrees N). The corrected results are evaluated by the probability density function of the differences between corrected observations and simulated values and the root mean square errors (RMSE) with respect to simulated observations. The numerical results show that the NNC method has better performance, especially in MWHTS Channels 1 and 7-9, whose peak weight function heights are close to the surface. In order to assess the effects of bias correction methods proposed in this study on the retrieval accuracy, a one-dimensional variational system was built and applied to the MWHTS brightness temperatures to estimate the atmospheric temperature and humidity profiles. The retrieval results also show that NNC has better performance. An indication of the stability and robustness of the NNC method is given, which suggests that the NNC method has promising application perspectives in the physical retrieval.
Robots play an increasingly important role in the development of minimally invasive surgery (MIS). In MIS assistant robot systems, the remote center of motion (RCM) mechanism is a key component, and is the primary choice as end-effector for such systems. In this paper, first, we propose a new type of synthesis method for RCM mechanisms, which is based on the coupled motion of two DOFs to obtain new virtual center of motion (VCM) mechanisms, and then, through different combinations and configurations of VCM mechanisms, a new family of RCM mechanisms is achieved. Second, one of the obtained RCM mechanisms, which is deemed to have potential application prospects in MIS assistant robot, is investigated in detail, and a prototype is designed and fabricated to verify its feasibility. Finally, preliminary experiments are carried out on the prototype; the results show that, compared with existing ones, the new RCM mechanism's volume can be adjusted according to its required workspace, and it will be more compact when the required workspace is small. It will be an applicable option of end-effector for an MIS assistant robot.
Emerging sensor networks (ESNs) are an inevitable trend with the development of the Internet of Things (IoT), and intend to connect almost every intelligent device. Therefore, it is critical to study resource allocation in such an environment, due to the concern of efficiency, especially when resources are limited. By viewing ESNs as multi-agent environments, we model them with an agent-based modelling (ABM) method and deal with resource allocation problems with market models, after describing users' patterns. Reinforcement learning methods are introduced to estimate users' patterns and verify the outcomes in our market models. Experimental results show the efficiency of our methods, which are also capable of guiding topology management.
Since the 1950s, the population in the arid to hyperarid Tarim River basin has grown rapidly concurrent with an expansion of irrigated agriculture. This threatens the Tarim River basin's natural ecosystems and causes water shortages, even though increased discharges in the headwaters have been observed more recently. These increases have mainly been attributed to receding glaciers and are projected to cease when the glaciers are unable to provide sufficient amounts of meltwater. Under these circumstances water management will face a serious challenge in adapting its strategies to changes in river discharge, which to a greater extent will depend on changes in precipitation. In this paper, we aim to develop accurate seasonal predictions of precipitation to improve water resources management.
Variations in a lake area constitute an important indicator of the modifications of the lake hydrology. This paper explores the inter-annual variations of the Poyang Lake area during the dry seasons occurring within the 1961 to 2010 period and further quantifies the severity of dryness recently endured during the 2000s. A physically based hydrodynamic model of Poyang Lake established the relation between the lake area and lake level. The lake area was calculated using the observed lake water level. Results indicated the average lake area in the dry seasons was 1,015 km(2). There was a considerable inter-annual variation of the minimum lake area that varied from 702.8 km(2) to 1,259.7 km(2). Poyang Lake experienced the most severe dryness in the 2000s, resulting in an average lake area during 2001 to 2010 of 124 km(2) less than that of the preceding period. During the dry seasons, the catchment of the river discharge is likely the primary cause of the changes in lake area. This study evaluated the inter-annual variations of the Poyang Lake over a period of 50 years. Our results may provide support for an integrated management of the lake-catchment system, securing the water supply.
Modeling of hydrological time series is essential for sustainable development and management of lake water resources. This study aims to develop an efficient model for forecasting lake water level variations, exemplified by the Poyang Lake (China) case study. A random forests (RF) model was first applied and compared with artificial neural networks, support vector regression, and a linear model. Three scenarios were adopted to investigate the effect of time lag and previous water levels as model inputs for real-time forecasting. Variable importance was then analyzed to evaluate the influence of each predictor for water level variations. Results indicated that the RF model exhibits the best performance for daily forecasting in terms of root mean square error (RMSE) and coefficient of determination (R-2). Moreover, the highest accuracy was achieved using discharge series at 4-day-ahead and the average water level over the previous week as model inputs, with an average RMSE of 0.25 m for five stations within the lake. In addition, the previous water level was the most efficient predictor for water level forecasting, followed by discharge from the Yangtze River. Based on the performance of the soft computing methods, RF can be calibrated to provide information or simulation scenarios for water management and decision-making.
In this paper, we investigate the PHY-layer authentication that exploits radio channel information (such as received signal strength indicators) to detect spoofing attacks in wireless networks. The interactions between a legitimate receiver and spoofers are formulated as a zero-sum authentication game. The receiver chooses the test threshold in the hypothesis test to maximize its utility based on the Bayesian risk in the spoofing detection, whereas the spoofers determine their attack frequencies to minimize the utility of the receiver. The Nash equilibrium of the static authentication game is derived, and its uniqueness is discussed. We also investigate a repeated PHY-layer authentication game for a dynamic radio environment. As it is challenging for the radio nodes to obtain the exact channel parameters in advance, we propose spoofing detection schemes based on Q-learning and Dyna-Q, which achieve the optimal test threshold in the spoofing detection via reinforcement learning. We implement the PHY-layer spoofing detectors over universal software radio peripherals and evaluate their performance via experiments in indoor environments. Both simulation and experimental results have validated the efficiency of the proposed strategies.
The question of whether creative insight varies across problem types has recently come to the forefront of studies of creative cognition. In the present study, to address the nature of creative insight, the coordinate-based activation likelihood estimation (ALE) technique was utilized to individually conduct three quantitative meta-analyses of neuroimaging experiments that used the compound remote associate (CRA) task, the prototype heuristic (PH) task and the Chinese character chunk decomposition (CCD) task. These tasks were chosen because they are frequently used to uncover the neurocognitive correlates of insight. Our results demonstrated that creative insight reliably activates largely non-overlapping brain regions across task types, with the exception of some shared regions: the CRA task mainly relied on the right parahippocampal gyrus, the superior frontal gyrus and the inferior frontal gyrus; the PH task primarily depended on the right middle occipital gyrus (MOG), the bilateral superior parietal lobule/precuneus, the left inferior parietal lobule, the left lingual gyrus and the left middle frontal gyrus; and the CCD task activated a broad cerebral network consisting of most dorsolateral and medial prefrontal regions, frontoparietal regions and the right MOG. These results provide the first neural evidence of the task dependence of creative insight. The implications of these findings for resolving conflict surrounding the different theories of creative cognition and for defining insight as a set of heterogeneous processes are discussed. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The perception of the faces of parents is different from that of other faces. Mother's face perception is associated with childbearing and parenting and has specific cognitive processing properties. Yet, the underlying mechanism remains unknown. We investigated the neural network that is involved in the perception of parent's face based upon parental face selective tasks that were completed by 23 normal adults. Resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and a task block design with fixation cross sign control fMRI were used. The faces activated the right inferior frontal gyrus, the left and right middle frontal gyri, and the left and right inferior parietal lobule. In addition, the parental faces task resulted in more activation than the control tasks in the left and right anterior cingulate, left middle (superior) temporal gyrus, right and left inferior frontal gyrus. The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the inferior parietal lobe (IPL) are central nodes of the brain network, while the parental face perception network includes the anterior cingulate cortex and superior temporal gyrus (ACC-STG)/parahippocampal network as well as the inferior frontal and inferior parietal lobule (IFG-IPL) network. The network of father's face perception involves the left inferior parietal lobule and left middle frontal gyrus/right middle frontal gyrus/right inferior frontal gyrus, while mother's face perception involves the right inferior parietal lobe and frontal network (MFG.L/IFG.R). The experiments showed that the ACC-STG/parahippocampal network and IFG-IPL network are neural networks used in parental face perception, and the ACC and IPL are central nodes in the network. The neural pathway of parental face perception is similar to the perception of a stranger's face, as both include the STG, but is different in that the perception of the stranger's face involves a connected STG and IPL as a specific neural pathway.
Networked games prevail in a wide range of evolutionary collective phenomena on social, biological, and engineering networks. An important and challenging problem is how to understand and then further intervene in the evolutionary networked game dynamics. This technical note aims at developing a microscopic deterministic formulation for analyzing and controlling the evolutionary game dynamics on complex networks. By utilizing the typical characteristics of multi-agent systems, the proposed approach establishes a systematic framework with micro-macro-intervention mechanism to analyze and control the networked game dynamics. Based on the proposed method, this technical note further explores several key issues, including consensus of strategies, cooperation among individuals and control of the network game dynamics. These results indicate us that the feedback from neighborhoods to each individual can alter the tendency of defection for adaptive dynamics. While for imitation dynamics on networks, it is much more effective to boost cooperation by awarding cooperators with high degree. Moreover, the effectiveness of different cooperation mechanisms has been clarified. The developed microscopic deterministic approach sheds some lights on the understanding and intervening in the collective decision-making behaviors in social and engineering networks.
This paper, on rural restructuring in China, focuses on the ability of agricultural heritage systems to adapt to modernizing conditions in the rural economy. Since 2002, when FAO initiated the protection of Globally Important Agricultural Heritage Systems (GIAHS), the value of agricultural heritage has been widely acknowledged, as has the importance and urgency to protect the systems in which they are embedded. However, such complex systems have not been fully assessed for their contribution to food security, ecosystem services and cultural preservation, as well as their ability to adapt to the demands of modernization. In fact, they have not been effectively evaluated as whole systems, largely because we have not yet devised satisfactory ways of studying complex systems, nor have we been able to assess them fully for their multi-faceted contributions to sustainability. This paper accepts the premise that such systems are sustainable in that they have survived as agro-ecosystems for many hundreds of years, having endured the predations of droughts, famines, plagues, floods and wars. This ability to sustain a rich diversity of biological and human systems is considered, in the theory of Complex Adaptive Systems (CAS), to be a form of resilience, meaning that these systems have either formed a new normal or returned to the old normal after a period of environmental or social stress. In effect, ancient agricultural heritage systems can be seen to represent what has been traditional and normal in China, but which today are faced with the overwhelming forces of modernization. Taking three examples from Qingtian County in Southern China, where physical and political conditions are consistent, the paper shows how similar rice-fish systems adapt differently and sustain themselves in the face of modernization, and particularly to the loss of youth and labor to urbanisation. One system self-adjusts by using remittances from abroad to sustain the system: an example of self-organization. In another township, the pursuit of tourism is the main form of adaptation to large losses of working population and marginal incomes. To maintain the landscape as a key attraction for tourists, this community has re-assembled abandoned rice terraces and is farming them as a collective enterprise under the auspices of a co-operative: an example of land and labor restructuring that has become common as the dominant form of agrarian change in China. In a third example, the local rice-fish system is being strengthened by modern farming technology and scientific techniques: an example of technological adaptation. The discussion explores the three responses as evidence of sustainable practice involving local restructuring, continued ingenuity, and the creative support of local governments in the face of the homogenizing demands of modernization.
Based on restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM), the deep learning models can be roughly divided into deep belief networks (DBNs) and deep Boltzmann machine (DBM). However, the overfitting problems commonly exist in neural networks and RBM models. In order to alleviate the overfitting problem, lots of research has been done. This paper alleviated the overfitting problem in RBM and proposed the weight uncertainty semi-restricted Boltzmann machine (WSRBM) to improve the ability of image recognition and image reconstruction.
This paper describes a novel on-line learning approach for radial basis function (RBF) neural network. Based on an RBF network with individually tunable nodes and a fixed small model size, the weight vector is adjusted using the multi-innovation recursive least square algorithm on-line. When the residual error of the RBF network becomes large despite of the weight adaptation, an insignificant node with little contribution to the overall system is replaced by a new node. Structural parameters of the new node are optimized by proposed fast algorithms in order to significantly improve the modeling performance. The proposed scheme describes a novel, flexible, and fast way for on-line system identification problems. Simulation results show that the proposed approach can significantly outperform existing ones for nonstationary systems in particular.
Reliable facial recognition systems are of crucial importance in various applications from entertainment to security. Thanks to the deep-learning concepts introduced in the field, a significant improvement in the performance of the unimodal facial recognition systems has been observed in the recent years. At the same time a multimodal facial recognition is a promising approach. This study combines the latest successes in both directions by applying deep learning convolutional neural networks (CNN) to the multimodal RGB, depth, and thermal (RGB-D-T) based facial recognition problem outperforming previously published results. Furthermore, a late fusion of the CNN-based recognition block with various hand-crafted features (local binary patterns, histograms of oriented gradients, Haar-like rectangular features, histograms of Gabor ordinal measures) is introduced, demonstrating even better recognition performance on a benchmark RGB-D-T database. The obtained results in this study show that the classical engineered features and CNN-based features can complement each other for recognition purposes.
In complex and changing environments, MASs (Multi-Agent Systems) have to be faced with many challenges and their adaptivity can hardly emerge from the localized, phased and timely behaviors and decisions of agents. In this paper, a self-adaptation mechanism based on experience exchanges is proposed for MASs. In the mechanism, agents can dynamically induce environmental constraints and behavior patterns for generating new adaptation policies from two types of experiences exchanged by others, i.e., immediate and retrospective experiences, and then build action matrix based on the adaptation policies for determining their behaviors that can positively contribute to the improvement of global adaptivity of MASs. In the end, an example MAS system simulating a delivery system is described and experiments are conducted on the system to validate the mechanism for self-adaptive MASs. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Public-key encryption can be used to protect the sensitive data in cloud system with intelligent mobile agents facilitating better services. However, many public-key encryption schemes do not resist the side-channel attacks which can be applied to the encryption instances implemented on a chip or cloud to obtain partial information leakage about the secret states, as the traditional security model of public-key encryption does not capture this kind of attacks. Also, the adversary can inject fault to tamper with the secret key and observe the output of the public-key encryption scheme under this modified key which is called "related-key attacks". Inspired by these, the models of key-leakage attacks and related-key attacks are formalized, respectively. In this paper, we present a method to construct public-key encryption schemes against both weak key-leakage attacks and linear related-key attacks from extractable hash proof systems (EHPS or XHPS). Specifically, we first transform ABOEHPS to weak leakage-resilient ABOEHPS and add Key Homomorphism and Fingerprinting properties to it. Then, based on this new ABOEHPS, we construct weak leakage-resilient adaptive trapdoor relation with these two properties and public-key encryption schemes against both weak key-leakage attacks and linear related-key attacks can be constructed from it. Moreover, we propose a public-key encryption scheme against both adaptive key-leakage attacks and linear related-key attacks.
This study aims to build a deep learning (DL) architecture for automated extraction of learned-from-data image features from the shear-wave elastography (SWE), and to evaluate the DL architecture in differentiation between benign and malignant breast tumors. We construct a two-layer DL architecture for SWE feature extraction, comprised of the point-wise gated Boltzmann machine (PGBM) and the restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM). The PGBM contains task-relevant and task-irrelevant hidden units, and the task-relevant units are connected to the RBM. Experimental evaluation was performed with five-fold cross validation on a set of 227 SWE images, 135 of benign tumors and 92 of malignant tumors, from 121 patients. The features learned with our DL architecture were compared with the statistical features quantifying image intensity and texture. Results showed that the DL features achieved better classification performance with an accuracy of 93.4%, a sensitivity of 88.6%, a specificity of 97.1%, and an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.947. The DL-based method integrates feature learning with feature selection on SWE. It may be potentially used in clinical computer-aided diagnosis of breast cancer. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved:
Multi-modal medical image fusion is the process of merging multiple images from single or multiple imaging modalities to improve the imaging quality with preserving the specific features.
A novel learning-based optimal control approach is constructed to attain the decentralized guaranteed cost controller design for a class of continuous-time complex nonlinear systems with dynamical uncertainties and interconnections. This is performed by combining robust decentralized control formulation with adaptive critic learning technique. By expressing the interconnected subsystems as a whole system and introducing a new cost function for the overall plant, the decentralized guaranteed cost control problem is formulated as an optimal control problem for the nominal overall system. Then, a policy iteration based learning control algorithm is employed to solve the modified Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation with respect to the nominal plant iteratively. A critic neural network is constructed to approximate the optimal state feedback control law and then the uniform ultimate boundedness stability issue is analyzed. Meanwhile, a simulation experiment is conducted to verify the good performance of the control approach. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, the continuous-time input-constrained nonlinear H-infinity state feedback control under event based environment is investigated with adaptive critic designs and neural network implementation. The nonlinear H-infinity control issue is regarded as a two-player zero-sum game that requires solving the Hamilton-Jacobi-Isaacs equation and the adaptive critic learning (ACL) method is adopted toward the event-based constrained optimal regulation. The novelty lies in that the event-based design framework is combined with the ACL technique, thereby carrying out the input-constrained nonlinear H-infinity state feedback via adopting a non-quadratic utility function. The event-based optimal control law and the time-based worst-case disturbance law are derived approximately, by training an artificial neural network called a critic and eventually learning the optimal weight vector. Under the action of the event based state feedback controller, the closed-loop system is constructed with uniformly ultimately bounded stability analysis. Simulation studies are included to verify the theoretical results as well as to illustrate the event-based H-infinity control performance. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The problem of three-dimensional path planning in obstacle-crowded environments is a challenge (an NP-hard problem), which becomes evenmore complex when considering environmental uncertainty and system control. Int this paper, we mainly focused on more challenging problem, that is, path planning in obstacle-crowded environments, and we try to find the relation between contact information and obstacle modeling. We proposed a newactive exploring sampling-based algorithm based on rapidly exploring random tree (RRT), namely, guiding attraction-based random tree (GART). GART introduces bidirectional potential field to redistribute each newly sampled state, such that the in-collision samples can be redistributed for extension. Furthermore, dynamic constraints are deployed to establish forward extending region by GART. Thus, GART can ensure kinodynamic reachability as well as smoothness. Theoretical analysis demonstrate that GART is probabilistic complete, and it obtains faster convergence rate because of its redistribution ability. In addition to theoretical analysis, this article provides comparative simulations as well as experiments under typical situations. Results demonstrate that GART has a much better time- efficiency performance than RRT*, retraction-based RRT, and other referred algorithms when applying redistribution and dynamic constraints on random exploration.
Endmember extraction is a key step in hyperspectral unmixing. A new endmember extraction framework is proposed for hyperspectral endmember extraction. The proposed approach is based on the swarm intelligence (SI) algorithm, where discretization is used to solve the SI algorithm because pixels in a hyperspectral image are naturally defined within a discrete space. Moreover, a "distance" factor is introduced into the objective function to limit the endmember numbers which is generally limited in real scenarios, while traditional SI algorithms likely produce superabundant spectral signatures, which generally belong to the same classes. Three endmember extraction methods are proposed based on the artificial bee colony, ant colony optimization, and particle swarm optimization algorithms. Experiments with both simulated and real hyperspectral images indicate that the proposed framework can improve the accuracy of endmember extraction. (C) 2016 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE)
Divertor is one of key components of tokamak fusion reactor. The CFETR is China Fusion Engineering Test Reactor. Its divertor will expose to tritium environment and neutron radiation. Materials of the divertor will be radioactived, and cannot be handled by personnel directly. To develop structure which compatible with robots handle for installation, maintenance and removing is required. This paper introduces a conceptual design of CFETR divertor module which compatible with remote handling end-effectors. The divertor module is confined by inner and outer support. The inner support is only confined divertor module radial, toroidal and vertical moving freedom degrees, but not confined rotating freedom degrees. The outer support is the structure that can confine rotating freedom degrees and should also be compatible with remote handling end-effectors. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Security surveillance is an important application for patrol robots. In this article, a real-time running event detection method is proposed for the community patrol robot. Although sliding window-based approaches have been quite successful in detecting objects in images, directly extending them to real-time object detection in video is not simple. This is due to the huge samples and diversity of object appearances with multivisual view and scale. To address these limitations, first, a simple and effective spatial-temporal filtering-based approach is proposed to obtain moving object proposals in each frame; then, two-stream convolutional networks fusion architecture is introduced to best take advantage of the spatial-temporal information from the proposal. The algorithm is applied on PatrolBot in community environments and runs at 15 fps on a consumer laptop. Two benchmark data sets (the Kungliga Tekniska Hogskolan [KTH] data set and Nanyang Technological University [NTU] running data set) were also used to compare results with previous works. Experimental results show higher accuracy and lower detection error rate in the proposed method.
AuSin- (n = 4-12) clusters were produced with a laser vaporization source and investigated by photoelectron spectroscopy. The swarm-intelligence-based CALYPSO structure search method and ab initio calculations were employed to determine their ground-state structures. The results revealed that the most stable isomers of AuSin- (n = 4-12) cluster anions are all exohedral structures, in which the Au atom caps the vertex, edge, or surface of the bare Si clusters. The endohedral and exohedral structures of neutral AuSi11 are nearly degenerate in energy. The most stable structure of neutral AuSi12 is endohedral. The growth mechanism of AuSin- cluster anions is compared with those of AuGen-, AgSin-, and CuSin- clusters. It implies that the bond strengths of Au-Si and Au-Ge play important roles in the formation of cage structures for AuSi12- and AuGen-, while the different atomic radii of coinage metals, different bond strengths, and the strong relativistic effect in Au atom are responsible for the different growth mechanisms of Si clusters doped with different coinage metals.
This paper presents a data-based robust adaptive control methodology for a class of nonlinear constrained-input systems with completely unknown dynamics. By introducing a value function for the nominal system, the robust control problem is transformed into a constrained optimal control problem. Due to the unavailability of system dynamics, a data-based integral reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm is developed to solve the constrained optimal control problem. Based on the present algorithm, the value function and the control policy*can be updated simultaneously using only system data. The convergence of the developed algorithm is proved via an established equivalence relationship. To implement the integral RL algorithm, an actor neural network (NN) and a critic NN are separately utilized to approximate the control policy and the value function, and the least squares method is employed to estimate the unknown parameters. By using Lyapunov's direct method, the obtained approximate optimal control is verified to guarantee the unknown nonlinear system to be stable in the sense of uniform ultimate boundedness. Two examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness and applicability of the theoretical results. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Highly sensitive, wearable and durable strain sensors are vital to the development of health monitoring systems, smart robots and human machine interfaces. The recent sensor fabrication progress is respectable, but it is limited by complexity, low sensitivity and unideal service life. Herein a facile, cost-effective and scalable method is presented for the development of high-performance strain sensors and stretchable conductors based on a composite film consisting of graphene platelets (GnPs) and silicon rubber. Through calculation by the tunneling theory using experimental data, the composite film has demonstrated ideal linear and reproducible sensitivity to tensile strains, which is contributed by the superior piezoresistivity of GnPs having tunable gauge factors 27.7-164.5. The composite sensors fabricated in different days demonstrate pretty similar performance, enabling applications as a health-monitoring device to detect various human motions from finger bending to pulse. They can be used as electronic skin, a vibration sensor and a human-machine interface controller. Stretchable conductors are made by coating and encapsulating GnPs with polydimethyl siloxane to create another composite; this structure allows the conductor to be readily bent and stretched with sufficient mechanical robustness and cyclability.
Background: Computer science and mathematical theories are combined to analyze the complex interactions among genes, which are simplified to a network to establish a theoretical model for the analysis of the structure, module and dynamic properties. In contrast, traditional model of gene regulatory networks often lack an effective method for solving gene expression data because of high durational and spatial complexity. In this paper, we propose a new model for constructing gene regulatory networks using back propagation (BP) neural network based on predictive function and network topology.
Liquid metals (LMs) in an alkaline electrolyte, when placed on a graphite surface, are able to be manipulated into desired flat, stable shapes with sharp angles, like triangles. Unique transformations and worm-like anti-gravity upslope LM locomotion under a low-voltage electric field are also revealed.
We propose the architecture of a novel robot system merging biological and artificial intelligence based on a neural controller connected to an external agent. We initially built a framework that connected the dissociated neural network to a mobile robot system to implement a realistic vehicle. The mobile robot system characterized by a camera and two-wheeled robot was designed to execute the target-searching task. We modified a software architecture and developed a home-made stimulation generator to build a bi-directional connection between the biological and the artificial components via simple binomial coding/decoding schemes. In this paper, we utilized a specific hierarchical dissociated neural network for the first time as the neural controller. Based on our work, neural cultures were successfully employed to control an artificial agent resulting in high performance. Surprisingly, under the tetanus stimulus training, the robot performed better and better with the increasement of training cycle because of the short-term plasticity of neural network (a kind of reinforced learning). Comparing to the work previously reported, we adopted an effective experimental proposal (i.e. increasing the training cycle) to make sure of the occurrence of the short-term plasticity, and preliminarily demonstrated that the improvement of the robot's performance could be caused independently by the plasticity development of dissociated neural network. This new framework may provide some possible solutions for the learning abilities of intelligent robots by the engineering application of the plasticity processing of neural networks, also for the development of theoretical inspiration for the next generation neuro-prostheses on the basis of the bi-directional exchange of information within the hierarchical neural networks.
A decentralized adaptive neural network sliding mode position/force control scheme is proposed for constrained reconfigurable manipulators. Different from the decentralized control strategy in multi-manipulator cooperation, the proposed decentralized position/force control scheme can be applied to series constrained reconfigurable manipulators. By multiplying each row of Jacobian matrix in the dynamics by contact force vector, the converted joint torque is obtained. Furthermore, using desired information of other joints instead of their actual values, the dynamics can be represented as a set of interconnected subsystems by model decomposition technique. An adaptive neural network controller is introduced to approximate the unknown dynamics of subsystem. The interconnection and the whole error term are removed by employing an adaptive sliding mode term. And then, the Lyapunov stability theory guarantees the stability of the closed-loop system. Finally, two reconfigurable manipulators with different configurations are employed to show the effectiveness of the proposed decentralized position/force control scheme.
Reconfigurable manufacturing systems can change the structure of the systems to cope with manufacturing market requirements. Reconfigurability brings about new challenges for reconfigurable manufacturing systems' development. In order to describe, analyze, and verify the reconfiguration of reconfigurable manufacturing systems, a reconfigurable manufacturing system formal model is proposed from the perspective of multi-agent systems, in which two complementary formalisms, namely, object-oriented Petri nets and pi-calculus, are employed as formalisms. The object-oriented Petri nets are utilized to model the initial structure as well as system behaviors of reconfigurable manufacturing systems, while pi-calculus is adopted to describe the reconfiguration of reconfigurable manufacturing systems. Some supporting tools of Petri nets and pi-calculus can be used to analyze, verify, and validate the reconfigurable manufacturing system formal model. The reconfigurability mechanism and consistency of reconfigurable manufacturing systems can also be analyzed by pi-calculus.
Big data mining, analysis, and forecasting always play a vital role in modern economic and industrial fields. Thus, how to select an optimization model to improve the forecasting accuracy of electricity price is not only an extremely challenging problem but also a concerned problem for different participants in an electricity market due to our society becoming heavily reliant on electricity. Many researchers developed hybrid models through the use of optimization methods, classical statistical models, artificial intelligence approaches and de-noising methods. However, few researchers aim to select reasonable samples and determine appropriate features when forecasting electricity price. Based on the Index of Bad Samples Matrix (IBSM), a novel method to dynamically confirm bad training samples, and the Optimization Algorithm (OA), DCANN and Updated DCANN are proposed in this paper for forecasting the day-ahead electricity price. This model is a hybrid system of supervised and unsupervised learning and creatively applies the idea of deleting bad samples and searching quality inputs to develop and learn, which is unlike BPANN, RBFN, SVM and LSSVM. Numerical results show that the proposed model is not only able to approximate the actual electricity price (normal or high volatility) but also an effective tool for h-step-ahead forecasting (his less than 10) compared to benchmarks. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This note further studies the previously proposed consensus protocol for linear multi-agent systems with communication noises. Each agent is allowed to have its own time-varying gain to attenuate the effect of communication noises. Therefore, the common assumption that all agents have the same noise-attenuation gain is not necessary. It has been proved that if all noise-attenuation gains are infinitesimal of the same order, then the mean square leader-following consensus can be reached. Furthermore, the convergence rate of the multi-agent system has been investigated. If the noise-attenuation gains belong to a class of functions which are bounded above and below by t(-beta) (beta is an element of (0, 1)) asymptotically, then the second-moment of the relative state between each follower agent and the leader agent is characterized by a function bounded above by t(-beta) asymptotically.
This study investigated the spatial and temporal variations of two groups of oil slicks with similar features that were observed in the North Sea by spaceborne synthetic aperture radar (SAR) TerraSAR-X (TSX) and TanDEM-X (TDX) within 13 h of each other, which were operating in the satellite constellation. Based on the SAR observations and the General NOAA Operational Modeling Environment (GNOME) simulations of the oil trajectories, it is unlikely that the oil spills observed by TSX on August 21, 2012 entirely drifted from the oil spills observed by TDX on August 20. Rather, the oil slicks observed after 13 h were likely composed of two parts. One part was the new oil spills that started to leak sometime after the first SAR acquisition on August 20 and that were subsequently observed on August 21. The other part was the older oil spills that had drifted from the original oil slicks observed on August 20 by TDX. The fast weathering of light crude oil and the mixture of oil and water produced in the Forties platforms should contribute to the rapid dispersion and dissipation of the previously observed oil slicks. The findings of this study contribute to our understanding of the life history of oil spill on the sea surface around offshore drilling platforms.
Inverse dynamics is an important and challenging problem in human motion modeling, synthesis and simulation, as well as in robotics and biomechanics. Previous solutions to inverse dynamics are often noisy and ambiguous particularly when double stances occur. In this paper, we present a novel inverse dynamics method that accurately reconstructs biomechanically valid contact information, including center of pressure, contact forces, torsional torques and internal joint torques from input kinematic human motion data. Our key idea is to apply statistical modeling techniques to a set of preprocessed human kinematic and dynamic motion data captured by a combination of an optical motion capture system, pressure insoles and force plates. We formulate the data-driven inverse dynamics problem in a maximum a posteriori (MAP) framework by estimating the most likely contact information and internal joint torques that are consistent with input kinematic motion data. We construct a low-dimensional data-driven prior model for contact information and internal joint torques to reduce ambiguity of inverse dynamics for human motion. We demonstrate the accuracy of our method on a wide variety of human movements including walking, jumping, running, turning and hopping and achieve state-of-the- art accuracy in our comparison against alternative methods. In addition, we discuss how to extend the data-driven inverse dynamics framework to motion editing, filtering and motion control.
Machine Learning (ML) tasks are becoming pervasive in a broad range of applications, and in a broad range of systems (from embedded systems to data centers). As computer architectures evolve toward heterogeneous multi-cores composed of a mix of cores and hardware accelerators, designing hardware accelerators for ML techniques can simultaneously achieve high efficiency and broad application scope.
With the rapid development of urbanization and industrialization, many developing countries are suffering from heavy air pollution. Governments and citizens have expressed increasing concern regarding air pollution because it affects human health and sustainable development worldwide. Current air quality prediction methods mainly use shallow models; however, these methods produce unsatisfactory results, which inspired us to investigate methods of predicting air quality based on deep architecture models. In this paper, a novel spatiotemporal deep learning (STDL)-based air quality prediction method that inherently considers spatial and temporal correlations is proposed. A stacked autoencoder (SAE) model is used to extract inherent air quality features, and it is trained in a greedy layer-wise manner. Compared with traditional time series prediction models, our model can predict the air quality of all stations simultaneously and shows the temporal stability in all seasons. Moreover, a comparison with the spatiotemporal artificial neural network (STANN), auto regression moving average (ARMA), and support vector regression (SVR) models demonstrates that the proposed method of performing air quality predictions has a superior performance.
Traffic data provide the basis for both research and applications in transportation control, management, and evaluation, but real-world traffic data collected from loop detectors or other sensors often contain corrupted or missing data points which need to be imputed for traffic analysis. For this end, here we propose a deep learning model named denoising stacked autoencoders for traffic data imputation. We tested and evaluated the model performance with consideration of both temporal and spatial factors. Through these experiments and evaluation results, we developed an algorithm for efficient realization of deep learning for traffic data imputation by training the model hierarchically using the full set of data from all vehicle detector stations. Using data provided by Caltrans PeMS, we have shown that the mean absolute error of the proposed realization is under 10 veh/5-min, a better performance compared with other popular models: the history model, ARIMA model and BP neural network model. We further investigated why the deep leaning model works well for traffic data imputation by visualizing the features extracted by the first hidden layer. Clearly, this work has demonstrated the effectiveness as well as efficiency of deep learning in the field of traffic data imputation and analysis. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, the infinite-horizon robust optimal control problem for a class of continuous-time uncertain non-linear systems is investigated by using data-based adaptive critic designs. The neural network identification scheme is combined with the traditional adaptive critic technique, in order to design the nonlinear robust optimal control under uncertain environment. First, the robust optimal controller of the original uncertain system with a specified cost function is established by adding a feedback gain to the optimal controller of the nominal system. Then, a neural network identifier is employed to reconstruct the unknown dynamics of the nominal system with stability analysis. Hence, the data-based adaptive critic designs can be developed to solve the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation corresponding to the transformed optimal control problem. The uniform ultimate boundedness of the closed-loop system is also proved by using the Lyapunov approach. Finally, two simulation examples are presented to illustrate the effectiveness of the developed control strategy.
Deep learning approaches emphasized on learning spatio-temporal features for action recognition. Different to previous works, we separate the spatio-temporal feature learning unity into the spatial feature learning and the spatial/temporal feature pooling procedures. Using the temporal slowness regularized independent subspace analysis network, we learn invariant spatial features from sampled video cubes. To be robust to the cluttered backgrounds, we incorporate the denoising criterion to our network. The local spatio-temporal features are obtained by pooling features from the spatial and the temporal aspects. The key points are that we learn spatial features from video cubes and pool features from spatial feature sequences. We evaluate the learned local spatio-temporal features on three benchmark action datasets. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the novel feature learning architecture.
Extracting local features from 3D shapes is an important and challenging task that usually requires carefully designed 3D shape descriptors. However, these descriptors are hand-crafted and require intensive human intervention with prior knowledge. To tackle this issue, we propose a novel deep learning model, namely circle convolutional restricted Boltzmann machine (CCRBM), for unsupervised 3D local feature learning. CCRBM is specially designed to learn from raw 3D representations. It effectively overcomes obstacles such as irregular vertex topology, orientation ambiguity on the 3D surface, and rigid or slightly non-rigid transformation invariance in the hierarchical learning of 3D data that cannot be resolved by the existing deep learning models. Specifically, by introducing the novel circle convolution, CCRBM holds a novel ring-like multi-layer structure to learn 3D local features in a structure preserving manner. Circle convolution convolves across 3D local regions via rotating a novel circular sector convolution window in a consistent circular direction. In the process of circle convolution, extra points are sampled in each 3D local region and projected onto the tangent plane of the center of the region. In this way, the projection distances in each sector window are employed to constitute a novel local raw 3D representation called projection distance distribution (PDD). In addition, to eliminate the initial location ambiguity of a sector window, the Fourier transform modulus is used to transform the PDD into the Fourier domain, which is then conveyed to CCRBM. Experiments using the learned local features are conducted on three aspects: global shape retrieval, partial shape retrieval, and shape correspondence. The experimental results show that the learned local features outperform other state-of-the-art 3D shape descriptors.
Fusion Tokamaks are complex machines which require special conditions for their operation, in particular, high vacuum inside the vessel and high temperature of the vessel walls. During plasma phases, the first wall components are highly stressed and a control is necessary in case of doubt about their condition. To be able to make safely such an inspection in a short period of time is a great advantage. The Articulated Inspection Arm (AIA) developed by the CEA provides the capability for fast inspections of the first wall overall surface keeping the vacuum and temperature conditions of the vessel. The robot prototype was validated in Tore Supra in 2008. In the frame of a joint laboratory, CEA/IRFM and ASIPP have decided to upgrade the existing AIA prototype to use it routinely in the EAST and WEST tokamaks. The robot has followed an important upgrade program in 2013 and 2014. The document presents the various upgrades made on the mechanics, the sensors, the electronics, the control station and the integration adaptation for the operation on EAST. From the AIA experience, thoughts for future inspection robots are given. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Self-learning convolutional neural network (self-CNN) for time series stream forecasting is proposed. First, the proposed self-CNN model was trained using the different types of the time series data. With the lapse of the time series stream the self-CNN model was self-trained again and again, which was using the previously predicted correct data as the input. Finally, the model was used to forecast the new time series data. The performance evaluation using the self-CNN method forecast and generate from the financial time series stream shows that the proposed self-CNN method performs better than the traditional Bollinger bands method.
In this paper, the robust optimal control of continuous-time affine nonlinear systems with matched uncertainties is investigated by using a data-based integral policy iteration approach. It is a natural extension of the traditional optimal control design, under the framework of adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) method, to robust optimal control of nonlinear systems with matched uncertainties. In theoretical aspect, by increasing a feedback gain to the optimal controller of the nominal system, the robust controller of the matched uncertain system is obtained, which also achieves optimality with a newly well-defined cost function. When regarding the implementation, the data-based integral policy iteration algorithm is used to solve the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation corresponding to the nominal system with completely unknown dynamics information. Then, the actor-critic technique based on neural networks and least squares implementation method are employed to facilitate deriving the optimal control law iteratively, so that the closed-form expression of the robust optimal controller is available. Additionally, two simulation examples with application backgrounds are presented to illustrate the effectiveness of the established robust optimal control scheme. In summary, it is important to note that the result developed in this paper broadens the application scope of ADP-based optimal control approach to more general nonlinear systems possessing dynamical uncertainties. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Attracting customers in the online-to-offline (O2O) business is increasingly difficult as more competitors are entering the O2O market. To create and maintain sustainable competitive advantage in crowded 020 markets requires optimizing the joint pricing-location decision and understanding customers' behaviours. To investigate the evolutionary location and pricing behaviors of service merchants, this paper proposes an agent-based competitive O2O model in which the service merchants are modeled as profit-maximizing agents and customers as utility-maximizing agents that are connected by social networks through which they can share their service experiences by word of mouth (WOM). It is observed that the service merchant should standardize its service management to offer a stable expectation to customers if their WOM can be ignored. On the other hand, when facing more socialized customers, firms with variable service quality should adopt aggressive pricing and location strategies. Although customers' social learning facilitates the diversity of services in O2O markets, their online herd behaviors would lead to unpredictable offline demand variations, which consequently pose performance risk to the service merchants. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Heterogeneous iris recognition (HIR) is in great demand for a large-scale identity management system. Iris images acquired in heterogeneous environment have large intra-class variations, such as different resolutions or different sensor optics, etc. Therefore, it is challenging to manually design a robust encoding filter to face the complex intra-class variations of heterogeneous iris images. This paper proposes a deep learning based framework for heterogeneous iris verification, namely DeepIris, which learns relational features to measure the similarity between pairs of iris images based on convolutional neural networks. DeepIris is a novel solution to iris recognition in two main aspects. (1) DeepIris learns a pairwise filter bank to establish the relationship between heterogeneous iris images, where pairs of filters are learned from two heterogeneous sources. (2) Different from two separate steps in terms of handcrafted feature extraction and feature matching in conventional solutions, DeepIris directly learns a nonlinear mapping function between pairs of iris images and their identity supervision with a pairwise filter bank (PFB) from different sources. Thus, the learned pairwise filters can adapt to new sources when given new training data. Extensive experimental results on the Q-FIRE and the CASIA cross sensor datasets demonstrate that EER (Equal Error Rate) of heterogeneous iris verification is reduced by 90% using DeepIris compared to traditional methods. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Unidirectional liquid transportation is an essential process for some creatures, and it has important applications in the field of wastewater purification, liquid manipulation, etc. However, existing materials capable of unidirectional liquid transportation are rare and lack diversity and composability of membrane pore size. A novel Janus superwetting mesh is fabricated by integrating superoleophobic and superoleophilic surfaces underwater. Oil droplets can penetrate through the Janus mesh from the superoleophobic side to the superoleophilic side but are blocked from the reverse direction underwater. This Janus mesh can be assembled into a valvelike liquid diode, which makes it convenient for use in underwater unidirectional oil transportation. This work should serve as a source of inspiration for the construction of novel materials and corresponding devices with practical applications in oil/water separation, microfluidics, and other intelligent systems.
Multiresponsive polyelectrolyte hydrogels with extraordinary toughness have great potential in soft device applications. Previously we have demonstrated a series of tough and multiresponsive hydrogels by using multifunctional triblock copolymer (Pluronic F127 diacrylate, F127DA) micelles to cross-link cationic polyelectrolyte chains into 3D network Herein, we further synthesize negatively charged hydrogels comprising 2-acrylamido-2-methyl propylsulfonic acid (AMPS) monomers by using F127DA micelles as cross-linkers. Similar to the positive nanomicelle (NM) hydrogels, the negative NM hydrogels exhibited a compressive strength up to 59 MPa with a fracture strain up to 98%, and tensile fracture strain higher than 2000%. These charged hydrogels were actuated by electric field when immersed in salt solutions. The effects of electrolyte concentration, electric field strength, and ionic monomer content on the electric actuation behavior of these electroactive hydrogels (EAHs) have been systematically investigated. It is concluded that the electroactive hydrogels show a fast actuation rate with a bending angle up to 87 degrees at 120 s and the bending angle was cyclically reversed upon changing bias direction without a large decrease. This study demonstrates that such tough and multiresponsive electroactive hydrogels may have great potential in sensors, actuators, switches, and artificial muscles.
In the distributed hydrological simulations for complex mountain areas, large amounts of meteorological input parameters with high spatial and temporal resolutions are necessary. However, the extreme scarcity and uneven distribution of the traditional meteorological observation stations in cold and arid regions of Northwest China makes it very difficult in meeting the requirements of hydrological simulations. Alternatively, regional climate models (RCMs), which can provide a variety of distributed meteorological data with high temporal and spatial resolution, have become an effective solution to improve hydrological simulation accuracy and to further study water resource responses to human activities and global climate change. In this study, abundant and evenly distributed virtual weather stations in the upper reaches of the Heihe River Basin (HRB) of Northwest China were built for the optimization of the input data, and thus a regional integrated environmental model system (RIEMS) based on RCM and a distributed hydrological model of soil and water assessment tool (SWAT) were integrated as a coupled climate-hydrological RIEMS-SWAT model, which was applied to simulate monthly runoff from 1995 to 2010 in the region. Results show that the simulated and observed values are close; Nash-Sutcliffe efficiency is higher than 0.65; determination coefficient (R-2) values are higher than 0.70; percent bias is controlled within +/-20%; and root-mean-square-error-observation standard deviation ratio is less than 0.65. These results indicate that the coupled model can present basin hydrological processes properly, and provide scientific support for prediction and management of basin water resources.
The optimization of spoken dialog management policies is a non-trivial task due to the erroneous inputs from speech recognition and language understanding modules. The dialog manager needs to ground uncertain semantic information at times to fully understand the need of human users and successfully complete the required dialog tasks. Approaches based on reinforcement learning are currently mainstream in academia and have been proved to be effective, especially when operating in noisy environments. However, in reinforcement learning the dialog strategy is often represented by complex numeric model and thus is incomprehensible to humans. The trained policies are very difficult for dialog system designers to verify or modify, which largely limits the deployment for commercial applications. In this paper we propose a novel framework for optimizing dialog policies specified in human-readable domain language using genetic algorithm. We present learning algorithms using user simulator and real human-machine dialog corpora. Empirical experimental results show that the proposed approach can achieve competitive performance on par with some state-of-the-art reinforcement learning algorithms, while maintaining a comprehensible policy structure.
The introduction of deep neural networks (DNNs) leads to a significant improvement of the automatic speech recognition (ASR) performance. However, the whole ASR system remains sophisticated due to the dependent on the hidden Markov model (HMM). Recently, a new end-to-end ASR framework, which utilizes recurrent neural networks (RNNs) to directly model context-independent targets with connectionist temporal classification (CTC) objective function, is proposed and achieves comparable results with the hybridHMM/DNN system. In this paper, we investigate per-dimensional learning rate methods, ADAGRAD and ADADELTA included, to improve the recognition of the end-to-end system, based on the fact that the blank symbol used in CTC technique dominates the output and these methods give frequent features small learning rates. Experiment results show that more than 4% relative reduction of word error rate (WER) as well as 5% absolute improvement of label accuracy on the training set are achieved when using ADADELTA, and fewer epochs of training are needed.
Multi-task learning in deep neural networks has been proven to be effective for acoustic modeling in speech recognition. In the paper, this technique is applied to Mandarin-English code-mixing recognition. For the primary task of the senone classification, three schemes of the auxiliary tasks are proposed to introduce the language information to networks and improve the prediction of language switching. On the real-world Mandarin-English test corpus in mobile voice search, the proposed schemes enhanced the recognition on both languages and reduced the relative overall error rates by 3.5%, 3.8% and 5.8% respectively.
This paper proposes a new quantization framework on activation function of deep neural networks (DNN). We implement fixed-point DNN by quantizing the activations into powers-of-two integers. The costly multiplication operations in using DNN can be replaced with lowcost bit-shifts to massively save computations. Thus, applying DNN-based speech recognition on embedded systems becomes much easier. Experiments show that the proposed method leads to no performance degradation.
Environmental monitoring of Earth from space has provided invaluable information for understanding land-atmosphere water and energy exchanges. However, the use of satellite-based precipitation observations in hydrologic and environmental applications is often limited by their coarse spatial resolutions. In this study, we propose a downscaling approach based on precipitation-land surface characteristics. Daytime land surface temperature, nighttime land surface temperature, and day-night land surface temperature differences were introduced as variables in addition to the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI), the Digital Elevation Model (DEM), and geolocation (longitude, latitude). Four machine learning regression algorithms, the classification and regression tree (CART), the k-nearest neighbors (k-NN), the support vector machine (SVM), and random forests (RF), were implemented to downscale monthly TRMM 3B43 V7 precipitation data from 25 km to 1 km over North China for the purpose of comparison of algorithm performance. The downscaled results were validated based on observations from meteorological stations and were also compared to a previous downscaling algorithm. According to the validation results, the RF-based model produced the results with the highest accuracy. It was followed by SVM, CART, and k-NN, but the accuracy of the downscaled results using SVM relied greatly on residual correction. The downscaled results were well correlated with the observations during the year, but the accuracies were relatively lower in July to September. Downscaling errors increase as monthly total precipitation increases, but the RF model was less affected by this proportional effect between errors and observation compared with the other algorithms. The variable importances of the land surface temperature (LST) feature variables were higher than those of NDVI, which indicates the significance of considering the precipitation-land surface temperature relationship when downscaling TRMM 3B43 V7 precipitation data.
Massive geological landslides and unstable landslide areas were triggered by the 2008 Wenchuan earthquake. These landslides caused deaths, damaged infrastructure and threatened endanger species. This study analyzed the impact of landslides on giant pandas and their habitats from the following aspects: threatening pandas' lives, damaging pandas' habitat, influencing giant panda behavior, increasing habitat fragmentation; the final aspect, and blocking gene flow by cutting off corridors. A habitat suitability map was created by integrating the landslide factors with other traditional factors based on a logistics regression method. According to the landslide inventory map, there are 1313 landslides, 818 rock debris flows, 117 rock avalanches and 43 mud flows occurred in the study area. A correlation analysis indicated that landslides caused the pandas to migrate, and the core landslides within 1 km2 had greater influence on panda migration. These core landslides primarily occurred in mid-altitude regions characterized by high slopes, old geological ages, large areas and large rock mass volumes. The habitat suitability assessment results for the Wolong Natural Reserve had better prediction performance (80.9%) and demonstrated that 14.5%, 15.9%, 20.5%, 47.6% and 1.5% of the study area can be classified as very high, high, moderate, low and very low giant panda suitability areas, respectively. This study can be used to inform panda and panda habitat research, management and protection during post-quake reconstruction and recovery periods in China.
The brain is naturally a parallel and distributed system. Reverse engineering a cognitive brain is considered to be a grand challenge. In this paper, we present the parallel brain simulator (PBS), a parallel and distributed platform for modeling the cognitive brain at multiple scales. Inspired by large-scale graph computation, PBS can be considered as a universal parallel execution engine, which is aimed at reducing the complexity of distributed programming and providing an easy to use programmable platform for computational neuroscientists and artificial intelligence researchers for modeling and simulation of large-scale neural networks. As illustrative examples and validations, three brain-inspired neural networks which are built on PBS are introduced, including the 1:1 human hippocampus network, the 1:1 mouse whole-brain network and the CASIA brain simulator built for cognitive robotics. We deploy PBS on both commodity clusters and supercomputers, and a scalable performance is achieved. In addition, we provide evaluations on the scalability and performance of both lumped synapse-based simulation and non-lumped synapse-based simulation with different data-graph distribution methods to show the effectiveness and usability of the PBS platform.
Gait phase is widely used for gait trajectory generation, gait control and gait evaluation on lower-limb exoskeletons. So far, a variety of methods have been developed to identify the gait phase for lower-limb exoskeletons. Angular sensors on lower-limb exoskeletons are essential for joint closed-loop controlling; however, other types of sensors, such as plantar pressure, attitude or inertial measurement unit, are not indispensable. Therefore, to make full use of existing sensors, we propose a novel gait phase recognition method for lower-limb exoskeletons using only joint angular sensors. The method consists of two procedures. Firstly, the gait deviation distances during walking are calculated and classified by Fisher's linear discriminant method, and one gait cycle is divided into eight gait phases. The validity of the classification results is also verified based on large gait samples. Secondly, we build a gait phase recognition model based on multilayer perceptron and train it with the phase-labeled gait data. The experimental result of cross-validation shows that the model has a 94.45% average correct rate of set (CRS) and an 87.22% average correct rate of phase (CRP) on the testing set, and it can predict the gait phase accurately. The novel method avoids installing additional sensors on the exoskeleton or human body and simplifies the sensory system of the lower-limb exoskeleton.
In this paper, we investigate a distributed Nash equilibrium computation problem for a time-varying multi-agent network consisting of two subnetworks, where the two subnetworks share the same objective function. We first propose a subgradient-based distributed algorithm with heterogeneous stepsizes to compute a Nash equilibrium of a zero-sum game. We then prove that the proposed algorithm can achieve a Nash equilibrium under uniformly jointly strongly connected (UJSC) weight-balanced digraphs with homogenous stepsizes. Moreover, we demonstrate that for weighted-unbalanced graphs a Nash equilibrium may not be achieved with homogenous stepsizes unless certain conditions on the objective function hold. We show that there always exist heterogeneous stepsizes for the proposed algorithm to guarantee that a Nash equilibrium can be achieved for UJSC digraphs. Finally, in two standard weight-unbalanced cases, we verify the convergence to a Nash equilibrium by adaptively updating the stepsizes along with the arc weights in the proposed algorithm.
This technical note considers the synchronization problem for networks of coupled nonlinear dynamical systems under switching communication topologies. Two types of nonlinear agent dynamics are considered. The first one is non-expansive dynamics [stable dynamics with a convex Lyapunov function phi(.)] and the second one is dynamics that satisfies a global Lipschitz condition. For the non-expansive case, we show that various forms of joint connectivity for communication graphs are sufficient for networks to achieve global asymptotic phi-synchronization. We also show that phi-synchronization leads to state synchronization provided that certain additional conditions are satisfied. For the globally Lipschitz case, unlike the non-expansive case, joint connectivity alone is not sufficient for achieving synchronization. A sufficient condition for reaching global exponential synchronization is established in terms of the relationship between the global Lipschitz constant and the network parameters.
Along with sensation and intelligence, actuation is one of the most important factors in the development of conventional robots. Many novel achievements have been made regarding bio-based actuators to solve the challenges of conventional actuation. However, few studies have focused on methods for controlling the movement performance of bio-syncretic robots by designing robotic structures and programming actuation bio-entities. In this paper, a theoretical model was derived considering kinematics and hydromechanics to describe the dynamics of a dolphin-shaped microstructure and to control the bio-syncretic swimmer movement by establishing the relationships between the swimming velocity of the bio-swimmer, the cell seeding concentration and the cell contractility. The proposed theoretical model was then verified with the fabricated biomimetic swimmer prototype actuated by equivalent external magnetism replacing the bio-entity force based on the study of living, beating cardiomyocyte contractility. This work can improve the development of bio-syncretic robots with an approach to preplanning the seeding concentration of cells for controlling the movement velocity of microstructures, and is also meaningful for biomimetic robots, medical treatments and interventional therapy applications.
Face detection and alignment in unconstrained environment are challenging due to various poses, illuminations, and occlusions. Recent studies show that deep learning approaches can achieve impressive performance on these two tasks. In this letter, we propose a deep cascaded multitask framework that exploits the inherent correlation between detection and alignment to boost up their performance. In particular, our framework leverages a cascaded architecture with three stages of carefully designed deep convolutional networks to predict face and landmark location in a coarse-to-fine manner. In addition, we propose a new online hard sample mining strategy that further improves the performance in practice. Our method achieves superior accuracy over the state-of-the-art techniques on the challenging face detection dataset and benchmark and WIDER FACE benchmarks for face detection, and annotated facial landmarks in the wild benchmark for face alignment, while keeps real-time performance.
It is difficult for us to generate a gradually changed texture by combing two textures when they have very different textures and structures. This is a common problem in constructing panoramas and in pasting from one texture to another. The inconsistency between the sources is what we want to deal with in this paper. We present a new method for synthesizing a transition region between two source textures, such that inconsistent textures and structural properties all change gradually from one source to the other. We first extract the convolutional neural network (CNN) features of two source textures and one initial target texture at convolution and pooling layers. We set the distortion function to be the square of the difference between feature maps of source texture and target texture. And we based on feature maps compute the Gram matrix which is the inner product between feature maps in each layer. We set the second distortion function to be the square of the difference between Gram matrix of second source texture and target texture. Our target function is the weighted sum of two distortion functions we described before. We use Large-scale bound-constrained optimization method to optimize the target function and get the ultimate result. The model provides a new tool to generate a transition region between two source textures by CNN. Our method is robust to various types of images tested. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a full (nested) multigrid scheme is proposed to solve eigenvalue problems. The idea here is to use a correction method to transform the eigenvalue problem solving to a series of corresponding boundary value problem solving and eigenvalue problems defined on a very low-dimensional finite element space. The boundary value problems which are defined on a sequence of multilevel finite element spaces can be solved by some multigrid iteration steps. The computational work of this new scheme can reach the same optimal order as solving the corresponding boundary value problem by the full multigrid method. Therefore, this type of full multigrid method improves the overfull efficiency of the eigenvalue problem solving. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This paper proposes an analytic method based on finite-element method (FEM) for the rolling gaits of tensegrity robots. By analyzing forces during the rolling motions, the following problems can be solved. First, the relation between the actuator combinations (AC) and the rolling directions is discovered for controlling the rolling motions. Second, the influence of the driving parameters on the deformations is found out for obtaining the optimized control strategy. Third, the influence of the material parameters on the rolling motions is achieved as guidance to design physical robots. Tensegrity robots were proposed as novel mobile robots based on tensegrity structures that consist of discrete rigid struts and continuous elastic cables. The tensegrity structures process the shock resistance ability and high deformation capacity, and can be used to build lightweight mobile robots. The tensegrity robots can generate multiple gaits and multiple deformations. Rolling gaits are more stable than jumping and more efficient than crawling. Aiming at rolling gaits, to solve the three problems mentioned earlier, force analysis is required. The internal forces of the tensegrity structures always keep balance tomaintain the shape of the structures, however, as the structures are highly coupled, the variation of one force will change the rest of the forces and generates feedback effects to this force. As the number of the forces increase with the growing number of struts, the force analysis becomes more and more complicated. The existing exhaustive experimental method can obtain the relation between the AC and the rolling directions through massive experiments, but this method cannot tell the influence of the driving parameters on the deformations and the experiment results based on certain robots are not suitable for other robots without analyzing the influence of the material parameters. In this paper, an analytic method based on FEM is introduced. A six-strut tensegrity model is used as an example to test the feasibility of the method. Experiments on a physical robot are performed to verify the reliability of the computation results.
Soil moisture content (SMC) is a key hydrological parameter in agriculture, meteorology and climate change, and understanding of spatio-temporal distributions of SMC in farmlands is important to address the precise irrigation scheduling. However, the hybrid interaction of static and dynamic environmental parameters makes it particularly difficult to accurately and reliably model the distribution of SMC. At present, deep learning wins numerous contests in machine learning and hence deep belief network (DBN), a breakthrough in deep learning is trained to extract the transition functions for the simulation of the cell state changes. In this study, we used a novel macroscopic cellular automata (MCA) model by combining DBN to predict the SMC over an irrigated corn field (an area of 22 km(2)) in the Zhangye oasis, Northwest China. Static and dynamic environmental variables were prepared with regard to the complex hydrological processes. The widely used neural network, multi-layer perceptron (MLP), was utilized for comparison to DBN. The hybrid models (MLP-MCA and DBN-MCA) were calibrated and validated on SMC data within four months, i.e. June to September 2012, which were automatically observed by a wireless sensor network (WSN). Compared with MLP-MCA, the DBN-MCA model led to a decrease in root mean squared error (RMSE) by 18%. Thus, the differences of prediction errors increased due to the propagating errors of variables, difficulties of knowing soil properties and recording irrigation amount in practice. The sequential Gaussian simulation (sGs) was performed to assess the uncertainty of soil moisture estimations. Calculated with a threshold of SMC for each grid cell, the local uncertainty of simulated results in the post processing suggested that the probability of SMC less than 25% will be difference in different areas at different time periods. The current results showed that the DBN-MCA model performs better than the MLP-MCA model, and the DBN-MCA model provides a powerful tool for predicting SMC in highly non-linear forms. Moreover, because modeling soil moisture by using environmental variables is gaining increasing popularity, DBN techniques could contribute a lot to enhancing the calibration of MCA-based SMC estimations and hence provide an alternative approach for SMC monitoring in irrigation systems on the basis of canals.
Flexible tactile sensors are considered as an effective way to realize the sense of touch, which can perform the synchronized interactions with surrounding environment. Here, the utilization of bionic microstructures on natural lotus leaves is demonstrated to design and fabricate new-type of high-performance fl exible capacitive tactile sensors. Taking advantage of unique surface micropattern of lotus leave as the template for electrodes and using polystyrene microspheres as the dielectric layer, the proposed devices present stable and high sensing performance, such as high sensitivity (0.815 kPa(-1)), wide dynamic response range (from 0 to 50 N), and fast response time (approximate to 38 ms). In addition, the fl exible capacitive sensor is not only applicable to pressure (touch of a single hair), but also to bending and stretching forces. The results indicate that the proposed capacitive tactile sensor is a promising candidate for the future applications in electronic skins, wearable robotics, and biomedical devices.
In this paper, we propose a face perception model to mimic the biological mechanism of face perception and memory in human brain. We are mainly inspired by the fact that there are two functionally and neurologically distinct pathways after the early face perception and they both interact to process the changeable features of faces. Accordingly, our model consists of three perception parts, facial structure perception, facial expression perception and facial identity perception, which are all component-based. The structure perception has a feed-forward projection to the expression and identity perception, while the expression affects the identity perception with a modulation process. We embody the three parts referring to three bio-inspired computational models. For the facial structure perception, we utilize a cascaded-CNN (convolutional neural networks) approach to estimate the center locations of key facial components. For the facial expression perception, we propose a novel approach which exploits convolutional deep belief networks (CDBN) to spontaneously locate the places containing the most discriminative information and synchronously complete the feature learning and feature selection. For the facial identity perception, we propose an approach which adopts the hierarchical max-pooling (HMAX) model to encode notable characteristics of facial components and utilizes a new memory formation integrating the preliminary decision, expression modulation and final decision process. We evaluate our model through a series of experiments and the experimental results demonstrate its rationality and effectiveness. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This study proposes a fuzzy logic approach to model and simulate pedestrian dynamical behaviors, which takes full advantage of human experience and knowledge and perceptual information obtained from interactions with surrounding environments. First, the radial-based method is adopted to represent the physical space. A pedestrian's visual field, defined as a fan-shaped area with a certain visual distance and visual angle, is divided into five sectors. Then, the motion states of a pedestrian are determined by the integration of recommendations of local obstacle-avoiding behavior, regional path-searching behavior and global goal-seeking behavior with mutable weighting factors at three different scopes. These elementary behaviors and weighting's assignment principle are modeled as fuzzy inference systems with the input information of a pedestrian's perception toward surrounding environments. A pedestrian is guided to avoid the front obstacles and select the lowest negative energy path by local obstacle-avoiding behavior and regional path searching behavior, respectively. The global goal-seeking behavior makes a pedestrian has a tendency of moving in direction of his/her goal regardless of external environments. The magnitudes of weighting factors are adjusted automatically to coordinate three elementary behaviors and resolve potential conflicts. At last, the effectiveness of the proposed model is validated by simulations of crowd evacuation, unidirectional and bidirectional pedestrian flows. The simulation results are analyzed from both qualitative and quantitative aspects, which indicate that the fuzzy logic based pedestrian model can get true reappearance of self-organization phenomena such as 'arching and clogging', 'faster-is-slower effect' and 'lane formation', and the fundamental diagrams are in matching with a large variety of empirical and experimental data. A further study finds that walking habits have negligible influence on the fundamental diagrams of bidirectional pedestrian flow at least for densities of rho < 3p/m(2). (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier Inc.
We discuss the issue of distributed and cooperative decision-making in a network game of public service location. Each node of the network can decide to host a certain public service incurring in a construction cost and serving all the neighboring nodes and itself. A pure consumer node has to pay a tax, and the collected tax is evenly distributed to all the hosting nodes to remedy their construction costs. If all nodes make individual best-response decisions, the system gets trapped in an inefficient situation of high tax level. Here we introduce a decentralized local-consensus selection mechanism which requires nodes to recommend their neighbors of highest local impact as candidate servers, and a node may become a server only if all its non-server neighbors give their assent. We demonstrate that although this mechanism involves only information exchange among neighboring nodes, it leads to socially efficient solutions with tax level approaching the lowest possible value. Our results may help in understanding and improving collective problem-solving in various networked social and robotic systems.
Online news reflects the dramatically increasing trend of social network use. Understanding what type of online news is popular and easy to spread to the public is a valuable focus for media influence analysis and social marketing. By abstracting detailed characteristics of online news, important influential factors are selected from diverse variables according to the principle component method and function approximation. In consideration of the high dimensionality of the popularity ranking model, back propagation neural networks (BPNN) was employed to predict popularity using artificial neural networks. The simulation results compare various forecasting methods based on factors achieved in previous work. This provides an effective prediction model according to real situations, with an accuracy level of 95%.
Face alignment is a key component of face recognition system, and facial landmark points are widely used for face alignment by a number of face recognition systems. However, inaccurate locations of landmark points bring about spatial misalignment which degrades the performance of face recognition systems. In order to alleviate this problem, we propose a simple and efficient data augmentation approach, which uses artificial landmark perturbation to generate a huge number of misaligned face images, to train Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (DCNN) models robust to landmark misalignment. In our experiments, three types of facial landmark-based face alignment methods are applied to train DCNN models on CASIA-WebFace training database. Experimental results on Labeled Faces in the wild database (LFW) and YouTube Faces database (YTF) verify the effectiveness of our approach. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Aesthetic image analysis has attracted much attention in recent years. However, assessing the aesthetic quality and assigning an aesthetic score are challenging problems. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for assessing the aesthetic quality of images. Firstly, we divide the images into three categories: "scene", "object" and "texture". Each category has an associated convolutional neural network (CNN) which learns the aesthetic features for the category in question. The object CNN is trained using the whole images and a salient region in each image. The texture CNN is trained using small regions in the original images. Furthermore, an A&C CNN is developed to simultaneously assess the aesthetic quality and identify the category for overall images. For each CNN, classification and regression models are developed separately to predict aesthetic class (high or low) and to assign an aesthetic score. Experimental results on a recently published large-scale dataset show that the proposed method can outperform the state-of-the-art methods for each category. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have become state-of-the-art for image classification. Inspired by the physiological mechanism of saliency in real human visual system (HVS), we had previously proposed the Sal-Mask Connection. As HVS tends to select specified region of the visual field depending on saliency to interpret complex scenes, we use saliency data as an element-by-element mask on feature maps learned from convolutional connections. The effectiveness of the Sal-Mask Connection had been verified in our previous work. However, as the performance of Sal-Mask Connection was influenced by the saliency data used, and current saliency algorithms are not designed to work for image classification, it is urgent and essential that we obtain a more suitable saliency. In this paper, therefore, we propose Ada-Sal Network to learn saliency adaptively while feature maps are being trained at the same time. Experiments on CIFAR-10 and STL-10 datasets are done with three various networks. In each test, we compare the performance of benchmark network, Sal-Mask Networks using two different saliencies, with that of the Ada-Sal Network. The results indicate that Ada-Sal Network outperforms not only traditional networks but also Sal-Mask Network using non-adaptive saliency. Visualization of the networks exhibits the saliency learned adaptively is able to combine merits from input saliencies and seems to work better for most cases. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Hydrogeological disasters occur frequently. Proposing an effective prediction method for hydrology data can play a guiding role in disaster prevention; however, due to the complexity and instability of hydrological data, this is difficult. This paper proposes a new hybrid forecasting model based on ensemble empirical mode decomposition (EEMD), radial basis function neural networks (RBFN), and support vector machine (SVM), this is the EEMD-RBFN-SVM method, which has achieved effective results in forecasting hydrologic data. The data were collected from the Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Region of the Qinghai Province. To validate the method, the proposed hybrid model was compared to the RBFN, EEMD-RBFN, and SAM-ESM-RBFN models, and the results show that the proposed hybrid model had a better generalization ability.
Wireless sensor networks will be responsible for a majority of the fast growth in intelligent systems in the next decade. However, most of the wireless smart sensor nodes require an external power source such as a Li-ion battery, where the labor cost and environmental waste issues of replacing batteries have largely limited the practical applications. Instead of using a Li-ion battery, we report an ultrastable, highly efficient, and super hydrophobic-surface-based triboelectric nanogenerator (TENG) to scavenge wind energy for sustainably powering a wireless smart temperature sensor node. There is no decrease in the output voltage and current of the TENG, after continuous working for about 14 h at a wind speed of 12 m/s. Through a power management circuit, the TENG can deliver a constant output voltage of 3.3 V and a pulsed output current of about 100 mA to achieve highly efficient energy storage in a capacitor. A wireless smart temperature sensor node can be sustainably powered by the TENG for sending the real-time temperature data to an iPhone under a working distance of 26 m, demonstrating the feasibility of the self-powered wireless smart sensor networks.
This paper proposes a data-driven dynamic modeling method for multijoint robotic fish with irregular geometric profiles and numerous heterogeneous hydrodynamic parameters. The method is composed of two main components: dynamic modeling and hydrodynamic parameter identification. In dynamic modeling, fluid forces exerted on the robotic fish are analyzed by the Morrison equation and the strip method. A dynamic model with an explicit formulation is derived, in which all terms involved in the dynamic analysis are converted to the coordinate system attached to the head. Further, the parameter identification technique is integrated into dynamic modeling, which reshapes it with data-driven feature and thereby makes it be competent to model swimming robots with complex geometric profiles and numerous heterogeneous hydrodynamic parameters. Experimental data of the swimming robotic fish are collected to identify the parameters directly. The obtained dynamic model is validated by data captured under extensive motion modes like forward swimming, varying velocity, and turning. Comparisons of simulated and experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the method.
Learning-based face descriptors have constantly improved the face recognition performance. Compared with the hand-crafted features, learning-based features are considered to be able to exploit information with better discriminative ability for specific tasks. Motivated by the recent success of deep learning, in this paper, we extend the original shallow face descriptors to deep discriminant face features by introducing a stacked image descriptor (SID). With deep structure, more complex facial information can be extracted and the discriminant and compactness of feature representation can be improved. The SID is learned in a forward optimization way, which is computational efficient compared with deep learning. Extensive experiments on various face databases are conducted to show that SID is able to achieve high face recognition performance with compact face representation, compared with other state-of-the-art descriptors.
Mining communities or clusters in networks is valuable in analyzing, designing, and optimizing many natural and engineering complex systems, e.g., protein networks, power grid, and transportation systems. Most of the existing techniques view the community mining problem as an optimization problem based on a given quality function (e.g., modularity), however none of them are grounded with a systematic theory to identify the central nodes in the network. Moreover, how to reconcile the mining efficiency and the community quality still remains an open problem. In this paper, we attempt to address the above challenges by introducing a novel algorithm. First, a kernel function with a tunable influence factor is proposed to measure the leadership of each node, those nodes with highest local leadership can be viewed as the candidate central nodes. Then, we use a discrete-time dynamical system to describe the dynamical assignment of community membership; and formulate the serval conditions to guarantee the convergence of each node's dynamic trajectory, by which the hierarchical community structure of the network can be revealed. The proposed dynamical system is independent of the quality function used, so could also be applied in other community mining models. Our algorithm is highly efficient: the computational complexity analysis shows that the execution time is nearly linearly dependent on the number of nodes in sparse networks. We finally give demonstrative applications of the algorithm to a set of synthetic benchmark networks and also real-world networks to verify the algorithmic performance.
Distributed consensus with limited communication data rate is an interesting and important problem and has been studied for multi-agent networks with the first order and second order integrator dynamics. However, the problem remains challenging for higher-order systems due to the complexity of consensus analysis and data rate minimization. In this paper, the leaderless and leader-following quantized consensus for a special kind of high-order systems are considered. Each agent is assumed to be controllable and observable with single input and single output, and its system matrix admits n identical eigenvalues of 1. The special case of n-th order integrator multi-agent system with only the first state variable being measurable is first investigated, and it is shown that for a fixed undirected connected network, n bits of information exchange between agents suffice to guarantee the leaderless and leader-following quantized consensus respectively with an exponential convergence rate by employing a suitable encoding-decoding scheme and perturbation analysis of matrices. The obtained results are then extended to the general case of multi-agent dynamics with n identical eigenvalues of 1 by applying the same encoding-decoding scheme and control protocol to an observer system for each agent. The final consensus value and the application to formation control are also discussed.
Relative attribute (RA) learning aims to learn the ranking function describing the relative strength of the attribute. Most of current learning approaches learn a linear ranking function for each attribute by use of the hand-crafted visual features. Different from the existing study, in this paper, we propose a novel deep relative attributes (DRA) algorithm to learn visual features and the effective nonlinear ranking function to describe the RA of image pairs in a unified framework. Here, visual features and the ranking function are learned jointly, and they can benefit each other. The proposed DRA model is comprised of five convolutional neural layers, five fully connected layers, and a relative loss function which contains the contrastive constraint and the similar constraint corresponding to the ordered image pairs and the unordered image pairs, respectively. To train the DRA model effectively, we make use of the transferred knowledge from the large scale visual recognition on ImageNet [1] to the RA learning task. We evaluate the proposed DRA model on three widely used datasets. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the proposed DRA model consistently and significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art RA learning methods. On the public OSR, PubFig, and Shoes datasets, compared with the previous RA learning results [2], the average ranking accuracies have been significantly improved by about 8%, 9%, and 14%, respectively.
Schelling's models of segregation, first described in 1969 (Am Econ Rev 59:488-493, 1969) are among the best known models of self-organising behaviour. Their original purpose was to identify mechanisms of urban racial segregation. But his models form part of a family which arises in statistical mechanics, neural networks, social science, and beyond, where populations of agents interact on networks. Despite extensive study, unperturbed Schelling models have largely resisted rigorous analysis, prior results generally focusing on variants in which noise is introduced into the dynamics, the resulting system being amenable to standard techniques from statistical mechanics or stochastic evolutionary game theory (Young in Individual strategy and social structure: an evolutionary theory of institutions, Princeton University Press, Princeton, 1998). A series of recent papers (Brandt et al. in: Proceedings of the 44th annual ACM symposium on theory of computing (STOC 2012), 2012); Barmpalias et al. in: 55th annual IEEE symposium on foundations of computer science, Philadelphia, 2014, J Stat Phys 158:806-852, 2015), has seen the first rigorous analyses of 1-dimensional unperturbed Schelling models, in an asymptotic framework largely unknown in statistical mechanics. Here we provide the first such analysis of 2- and 3-dimensional unperturbed models, establishing most of the phase diagram, and answering a challenge from Brandt et al. in: Proceedings of the 44th annual ACM symposium on theory of computing (STOC 2012), 2012).
To fully utilize the dynamic performance of robotic manipulators and enforce minimum motion time in path tracking, the problem of minimum time path tracking for robotic manipulators under confined torque, change rate of the torque, and voltage of the DC motor is considered. The main contribution is the introduction of the concepts of virtual change rate of the torque and the virtual voltage, which are linear functions in the state and control variables and are shown to be very tight approximation to the real ones. As a result, the computationally challenging non-convex minimum time path tracking problem is reduced to a convex optimization problem which can be solved efficiently. It is also shown that introducing dynamics constraints can significantly improve the motion precision without costing much in motion time, especially in the case of high speed motion. Extensive simulations are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
BACKGROUND: A number of space activities (e.g., extravehicular astronaut rescue, cooperation in satellite services, space station supplies, and assembly) are implemented directly or assisted by remote robotic arms. Our study aimed to reveal those individual characteristics which could positively influence or even predict teleoperation performance of such a space robotic arm.
Recently, Deep Learning (DL) method has received a significant breakthrough in the data representation, whose success mainly depends on its deep structure. In this paper, we focus on the DL research based on Support Vector Machine (SVM), and first present an Ex-Adaboost learning strategy, and then propose a new Deep Support Vector Machine (called DeepSVM). Unlike other DL algorithms based on SVM, in each layer, Ex-Adaboost is applied to not only select SVMs with the minimal error rate and the highest diversity, but also to produce the weight for each feature. In this way, new training data is obtained. By stacking these SVMs into multiple layers following the same way, we finally acquire a new set of deep features that can greatly boost the classification performance. In the end, the training data represented by these new features is regarded as the input for a standard SVM classifier. In the experimental part, we offer these answers to the following questions: 1) is the deep structure of DeepSVM really useful for classification problem? 2) Does Ex-Adaboost work, and is it helpful for further improving on DeepSVM's performance with respect to the deep structure? 3) How much improvement in classification accuracy of DeepSVM, compared with other exist algorithms? (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Chinese microblogging is an increasingly popular social media platform. Accurately summarizing representative opinions from microblogs can increase understanding of the semantics of opinions. The unique challenges of Chinese opinion summarization in microblogging systems are automatic learning of important features and selection of representative sentences. Deep-learning methods can automatically discover multiple levels of representations from raw data instead of requiring manual engineering. However, there have been very few systematic studies on sentiment analysis of Chinese hot topics using deep-learning methods. Based on the latest deep-learning research, in this paper, we propose a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based opinion summarization method for Chinese microblogging systems. The model first applies CNN to automatically mine useful features and perform sentiment analysis; then, by making good use of the obtained sentiment features, the semantic relationships among features are computed according to a hybrid ranking function; and finally, representative opinion sentences that are semantically related to the features are extracted using Maximal Marginal Relevance, which meets "relevant novelty" requirements. Experimental results on two real-world datasets verify the efficacy of the proposed model. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper presents a robust information theoretic (RIT) model to reduce the uncertainties, i.e., missing and noisy labels, in general discriminative data representation tasks. The fundamental pursuit of our model is to simultaneously learn a transformation function and a discriminative classifier that maximize the mutual information of data and their labels in the latent space. In this general paradigm, we, respectively, discuss three types of the RIT implementations with linear subspace embedding, deep transformation, and structured sparse learning. In practice, the RIT and deep RIT are exploited to solve the image categorization task whose performances will be verified on various benchmark data sets. The structured sparse RIT is further applied to a medical image analysis task for brain magnetic resonance image segmentation that allows group-level feature selections on the brain tissues.
Application of digital terrain analysis (DTA), which is typically a modeling process involving workflow building, relies heavily on DTA domain knowledge of the match between the algorithm (and its parameter settings) and the application context (including the target task, the terrain in the study area, the DEM resolution, etc.), which is referred to as application-context knowledge. However, existing DTA-assisted tools often cannot use application-context knowledge because this type of DTA knowledge has not been formalized to be available for inference in these tools. This situation makes the DTA workflow-building process difficult for users, especially non-expert users. This paper proposes a case-based formalization for DTA application-context knowledge and a corresponding case-based reasoning method. A case in this context consists of a series of indices that formalize the DTA application-context knowledge and the corresponding similarity calculation methods for case-based reasoning. A preliminary experiment to determine the catchment area threshold for extracting drainage networks has been conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. In the experiment, 124 cases of drainage network extraction (50 for evaluation and 74 for reasoning) were prepared from peer-reviewed journal articles. Preliminary evaluation shows that the proposed case-based method is a suitable way to use DTA application-context knowledge to achieve a marked reduction in the modeling burden for users.
Paddy rice is one of the most important crops in China, and leaf nitrogen content (LNC) serves as a significant indictor for monitoring crop status. A reliable method is needed for precise and fast quantification of LNC. Laser-induced fluorescence (LIF) technology and reflectance spectra of crops are widely used to monitor leaf biochemical content. However, comparison between the fluorescence and reflectance spectra has been rarely investigated in the monitoring of LNC. In this study, the performance of the fluorescence and reflectance spectra for LNC estimation was discussed based on principal component analysis (PCA) and back-propagation neural network (BPNN). The combination of fluorescence and reflectance spectra was also proposed to monitor paddy rice LNC. The fluorescence and reflectance spectra exhibited a high degree of multi-collinearity. About 95.38%, and 97.76% of the total variance included in the spectra were efficiently extracted by using the first three PCs in PCA. The BPNN was implemented for LNC prediction based on new variables calculated using PCA. The experimental results demonstrated that the fluorescence spectra (R-2 = 0.810, 0.804 for 2014 and 2015, respectively) are superior to the reflectance spectra (R-2 = 0.721, 0.671 for 2014 and 2015, respectively) for estimating LNC based on the PCA-BPNN model. The proposed combination of fluorescence and reflectance spectra can greatly improve the accuracy of LNC estimation (R-2 = 0.912, 0.890 for 2014 and 2015, respectively). (C) 2016 Optical Society of America
Many biological materials can readily modulate their mechanical properties and shape by interacting with water in the surrounding environment, which is essential to their high performance in application. In contrast, typical inorganic materials (such as the metals) cannot change their strength and shape without involving thermal/mechanical treatments. By introducing nano-scale porous structure and exploiting a simple physical concept-the watercapillarity in nanopores, here we report that a 'dead' metal can be transformed into a 'smart' material with water-responsive properties. We demonstrate that the apparent strength, volume and shape of nanoporous Au and Au(Pt) can be modulated in situ, dramatically and recoverably, in response to water-dipping and partial-drying. The amplitude of strength-modulation reaches 20 MPa, which is nearly 50% of the yield strength at initial state. This approach also leads to reversible length change up to 1.3% in nanoporous Au and a large reversible bending motion of a bi-layer strip with tip displacement of similar to 20 mm, which may be used for actuation. This method is simple and effective, occurring in situ under ambient conditions and requiring no external power, analogous to biological materials. The findings may open up novel applications in many areas such as micro-robotics and bio-medical devices.
Synapses may undergo variable changes during plasticity because of the variability of spike patterns such as temporal stochasticity and spatial randomness. Here, we call the variability of synaptic weight changes during plasticity to be efficacy variability. In this paper, we investigate how four aspects of spike pattern statistics (i.e., synchronous firing, burstiness/regularity, heterogeneity of rates and heterogeneity of cross-correlations) influence the efficacy variability under pair-wise additive spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) and synaptic homeostasis (the mean strength of plastic synapses into a neuron is bounded), by implementing spike shuffling methods onto spike patterns self-organized by a network of excitatory and inhibitory leaky integrate-and-fire (LIF) neurons. With the increase of the decay time scale of the inhibitory synaptic currents, the LIF network undergoes a transition from asynchronous state to weak synchronous state and then to synchronous bursting state. We first shuffle these spike patterns using a variety of methods, each designed to evidently change a specific pattern statistics; and then investigate the change of efficacy variability of the synapses under STDP and synaptic homeostasis, when the neurons in the network fire according to the spike patterns before and after being treated by a shuffling method. In this way, we can understand how the change of pattern statistics may cause the change of efficacy variability. Our results are consistent with those of our previous study which implements spike-generating models on converging motifs. We also find that burstiness/regularity is important to determine the efficacy variability under asynchronous states, while heterogeneity of cross-correlations is the main factor to cause efficacy variability when the network moves into synchronous bursting states (the states observed in epilepsy).
To date, most studies use surface electromyographic (sEMG) signals as the control source on active rehabilitation robots, and unilateral data are collected based on the gait symmetry hypothesis, which has caused much controversy. The purpose of this study is to quantitatively evaluate the sEMG activity asymmetry of bilateral muscles in lower extremities during functional tasks. Nine participants were instructed to perform static and dynamic steady state tests. sEMG signals from the tibialis anterior, soleus, medial gastrocnemius and lateral gastrocnemius muscles of bilateral lower extremities were recorded in the experiments. Muscle activities are quantified in terms of sEMG amplitude. We investigated whether characteristics of left limb and the one of the right limb have the same statistical characteristics during functional tasks using The Wilcoxon rank-sum test, and studied dynamic signal irregularity degree for sEMG activities via sample entropy. The total of muscle activities showed significant differences between left limb and right limb during the static steady state (p = 0.000). For dynamic steady states, there were significant differences for most muscle activities between left limb and right limb at different speeds (p = 0.000). Nevertheless, there was no difference between the lateral gastrocnemius for bilateral limb at 2.0 kilometers per hour (p = 0.060). For medial gastrocnemius, differences were not found between left limb and right limb at 1.0 and 3.0 kilometers per hours (p = 0.390 and p = 0.085, respectively). Similarly, there was no difference for soleus at 3.0 kilometers per hour (p = 0.115). The importance of the differences in muscle activities between left limb and right limb were found. These results can potentially be used for evaluating lower limb extremity function of special populations (elderly people or stroke patients) in an objective and simple method.
Reinforcement learning offers a promising way for self-learning control of an unknown system, but it involves the issues of policy evaluation and exploration, especially in the domain of continuous state. In this study, these issues are addressed from the perspective of probability. It models the action value function as the latent variable of Gaussian process, while the reward as the observed variable. Then an online approach is proposed to update the action value function by Bayesian inference. Taking an advantage of the proposed framework, a prior knowledge can be incorporated into the action value function, and thus an efficient exploration strategy is presented. At last, the Bayesian-state-action-reward-state-action algorithm is tested on some benchmark problems and empirical results show its effectiveness.
The optimal tracking of non-linear systems without knowing system dynamics is an important and intractable problem. Based on the framework of reinforcement learning (RL) and adaptive dynamic programming, a model-free adaptive optimal tracking algorithm is proposed in this study. After constructing an augmented system with the tracking errors and the reference states, the tracking problem is converted to a regulation problem with respect to the new system. Several RL techniques are synthesised to form a novel algorithm which learns the optimal solution online in real time without any information of the system dynamics. Continuous adaptation laws are defined by the current observations and the past experience. The convergence is guaranteed by Lyapunov analysis. Two simulations on a linear and a non-linear systems demonstrate the performance of the proposed approach.
This article presents a comprehensive survey of reconfigurable modular robots, which covers the origin, history, the state of the art, key technologies, challenges, and applications of reconfigurable modular robots. An elaborative classification of typical reconfigurable modular robots is proposed based on the characteristics of the modules and the reconfiguration mechanism. As the system characteristics of reconfigurable modular robots are mainly dependent on the functions of modules, the mechanical and electrical design features of modules of typical reconfigurable modular robots are discussed in detail. Furthermore, an in-depth comparison analysis is conducted, which encompasses discussions of module shape, module degrees of freedom, module attribute, connection mechanisms, interface autonomy, locomotion modes, and workspace. Meanwhile, many reconfigurable modular robot researches focus on the study of self-X capabilities (i.e. self-reconfiguration, self-assembly, self-adaption, etc.), which embodies autonomy performance of reconfigurable modular robots in certain extent. An evolutionary cobweb evaluation model is proposed in this article to evaluate the autonomy level of reconfigurable modular robots. Although various reconfigurable modular robots have been developed and some of them have been put into practical applications such as search and rescue missions, there still exist many open theoretical, technical, and practical challenges in this field. This work is hopefully to offer a reference for the further developments of reconfigurable modular robots.
Landslides, as one of the most destructive natural phenomena, distribute extensively in Wolong Giant Panda Natural Reserve and cause damage to both humans and endangered species. Therefore, landslide susceptibility zonation (LSZ) mapping is necessary for government agencies and decision makers to select suitable locations for giant pandas. The main purpose of this study is to produce landside susceptibility maps using logistic regression (LR), analytical hierarchy process (AHP), and a combined fuzzy and support vector machine (F-SVM) hybrid method based on geographic information systems (GIS). A total of 1773 landslide scarps larger than one cell (25 9 25 m(2)) were selected in the landslide inventory mapping, 70 % of which were selected at random to be used as test data, and the other 30 % were used as validation. Topographical, geological, and hydrographical data were collected, processed, and constructed into a spatial database. Nine conditioning factors were chosen as influencing factors related to landslide occurrence: slope degree, aspect, altitude, profile curvature, geology and lithology, distance from faults, distance from rivers, distance from roads, and normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI). Landslide susceptible areas were analyzed and mapped using the landslide occurrence factors by different methods. For conventional assessment, weights and rates of the affecting factors were assigned based on experience and knowledge of experts. In order to reduce the subjectivity, a combined fuzzy and SVM hybrid model was generated for LSZ in this paper. In this approach, the rates of each thematic layer were generated by the fuzzy similarity method, and weights were created by the SVM method. To confirm the practicality of the susceptibility map produced by this improved method, a comparison study with LR, AHP was assessed by means of their validation. The outcome indicated that the combined fuzzy and SVM method (accuracy is 85.73 %) is better than AHP (accuracy is 78.84 %), whereas it is relatively similar to LR (accuracy is 84.55 %). The susceptibility map based on combined the fuzzy and SVM approach also shows that 5.8 % of the study area is assigned as very highly susceptible areas, and 17.8 % of the study area is assigned as highly susceptible areas.
This paper reports the classification of 90 sample pavilions in Shanghai World Expo. An artificial intelligence based nonlinear clustering method known as Self-Organizing Map (SOM) has been used to classify expo pavilions. SOM is an efficient tool for visualization of multidimensional data. To conduct the classification, four characteristics namely Hurst exponent for queue length, Hurst exponent for waiting time, mean queue length and mean waiting time have been applied. The classification results show that Shanghai World Expo pavilions can be optimally classified into four classes. This result will shed light on further studies that how to manage the queue of World Expo pavilions in the future.
Horn clauses can be used in many areas such as logic programming, artificial intelligence and formal methods. Horn clause solving is closely related to program verification. On the one hand, program verification tasks can be translated to Horn clause solving problems. On the other hand, Horn clause solving tasks can be accomplished using some of the program verification techniques. As a result, Horn clauses can be used as an intermediate language in program verification, decoupling the verification algorithms from the details of the specific programming languages. In this article, we propose a novel method for solving Horn clauses, which is inspired by a program verification method called trace abstraction refinement. In our method, solvability of Horn clauses is verified by alternatively analyzing its unfoldings and constructing and manipulating tree automata. Since Horn clauses can serve as an intermediate language for program verification, our method generalizes the original trace abstraction refinement algorithm, making it easier to be used for various program verification tasks. We illustrate some of the existing works on how to reduce safety verification tasks of multithreaded programs and programs with procedures to Horn clause solving problems. Preliminary experimental results are reported.
Content-based video understanding is extremely difficult due to the semantic gap between low-level vision signals and the various semantic concepts (object, action, and scene) in videos. Though feature extraction from videos has achieved significant progress, most of the previous methods rely only on low-level features, such as the appearance and motion features. Recently, visual-feature extraction has been improved significantly with machine-learning algorithms, especially deep learning. However, there is still not enough work focusing on extracting semantic features from videos directly. The goal of this article is to adopt unlabeled videos with the help of text descriptions to learn an embedding function, which can be used to extract more effective semantic features from videos when only a few labeled samples are available for video recognition. To achieve this goal, we propose a novel embedding convolutional neural network (ECNN). We evaluate our algorithm by comparing its performance on three challenging benchmarks with several popular state-of-the-art methods. Extensive experimental results show that the proposed ECNN consistently and significantly outperforms the existing methods.
In the evaluation of some simulation systems, only small samples data are gotten due to the limited conditions. In allusion to the evaluation problem of small sample data, an interval estimation approach with the improved grey confidence degree is proposed. On the basis of the definition of grey distance, three kinds of definition of the grey weight for every sample element in grey estimated value are put forward, and then the improved grey confidence degree is designed. In accordance with the new concept, the grey interval estimation for small sample data is deduced. Furthermore, the bootstrap method is applied for more accurate grey confidence interval. Through resampling of the bootstrap, numerous small samples with the corresponding confidence intervals can be obtained. Then the final confidence interval is calculated from the union of these grey confidence intervals. In the end, the simulation system evaluation using the proposed method is conducted. The simulation results show that the reasonable confidence interval is acquired, which demonstrates the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed method.
We present a Model Quality Assessment Program (MQAP), called MQAPsingle, for ranking and assessing the absolute global quality of single protein models. MQAPsingle is quasi single-model MQAP, a method that combines advantages of both "pure" single-model MQAPs and clustering MQAPs. This approach results in higher accuracy compared to the state-of-the-art single-model MQAPs. Notably, the prediction for a given model is the same regardless if this model is submitted to our server alone or together with other models. (C) 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Leaf area index (LAI) is a key parameter used to describe vegetation structures and is widely used in ecosystem biophysical process and vegetation productivity models. Many algorithms have been developed for the estimation of LAI based on remote sensing images. Our goal was to produce accurate and timely predictions of grassland LAI for the meadow steppes of northern China. Here, we compare the predictive power of regression approaches and hybrid geostatistical methods using Chinese Huanjing (HJ) satellite charge coupled device (CCD) data. The regression methods evaluated include partial least squares regression (PLSR), artificial neural networks (ANNs) and random forests (RFs). The two hybrid geostatistical methods were regression kriging (RK) and random forests residuals kriging (RFRK). The predictions were validated for different grassland types and different growing stages, and their performances were also examined by adding several groups of vegetation indices (VIs). The two hybrid geostatistical models (RK and RFRK) yielded the most accurate predictions (root mean squared error (RMSE) = 0.21 m(2)/m(2) and 0.23 m(2)/m(2) for RK and RFRK, respectively), followed by the RF model (RMSE = 0.27 m(2)/m(2)), which was the most accurate among the regression models. These three models also exhibited the best temporal performance across the duration of the growing season. The PLSR and ANN models were less accurate (RMSE = 0.33 m(2)/m(2) and 0.35 m(2)/m(2) for ANN and PLSR, respectively), and the PLSR model performed the worst (exhibiting varied temporal performance and unreliable prediction accuracy that was susceptible to ground conditions). By adding VIs to the predictor variables, the predictions of the PLSR and ANN models were obviously improved (RMSE improved from 0.35 m(2)/m(2) to 0.28 m(2)/m(2) for PLSR and from 0.33 m(2)/m(2) to 0.28 m(2)/m(2) for ANN); the RF and RFRK models did not generate more accurate predictions and the performance of the RK model declined (RMSE decreased from 0.21 m(2)/m(2) to 0.32 m(2)/m(2)).
We introduce and validate a beat-to-beat optical blood pressure (BP) estimation paradigm using only photoplethysmogram (PPG) signal from finger tips. The scheme determines subject-specific contribution to PPG signal and removes most of its influence by proper normalization. Key features such as amplitudes and phases of cardiac components were extracted by a fast Fourier transform and were used to train an artificial neural network, which was then used to estimate BP from PPG. Validation was done on 69 patients from the MIMIC II database plus 23 volunteers. All estimations showed a good correlation with the reference values. This method is fast and robust, and can potentially be used to perform pulse wave analysis in addition to BP estimation. (C) 2016 Optical Society of America
Because of the limited working hours of astronauts in the space station, the in-cabin robot has high value in the technological validation and scientific research. Based on this requirement, we proposed and designed an Astronaut Assisted Robot(AAR) working in the space station. It can float in the space station cabin, fly autonomously, and hold a fixed position and/or posture. In addition, it also possesses environmental awareness capabilities and intelligence. Thus the AAR can assist astronauts to complete some special scientific experiments or technical tests. In this paper, the system architecture and experimental equipment of the AAR are designed firstly depending on the characteristics of space microgravity environment and the requirements of assisting astronauts missions. And then, the motion principles of the AAR are analyzed and the robot's dynamic model is established by using the Newton - Euler algorithm. Since the attitude control of the robot is the basis for its free movement, the PID Neural Network( PIDNN) algorithm, which is a kind of intelligent control algorithm, is used to design the attitude controller of the AAR. Finally, the reasonability of the robot's structural design and the availability of its attitude controllers are verified through the simulation experiments.
This study examines the performance of three hydrological models, namely the artificial neural network (ANN) model, the Hydrologiska Byrans Vattenbalansavdelning-D (HBV-D) model, and the Soil and Water Integrated Model (SWIM) over the upper reaches of the Huai River basin. The assessment is done by using databases of different temporal resolution and by further examining the applicability of SWIM for different catchment sizes. The results show that at monthly scale the performance of the ANN model is better than that of HBV-D and SWIM. The ANN model can be applied at any temporal scale as it establishes an artificial precipitation-runoff relationship for various time scales by only using monthly precipitation, temperature and runoff data. However, at daily scale the performance of both HBV-D and SWIM are similar or even better than the ANN model. In addition, the performance of SWIM at a small catchment size (less than 10000km(2)) is much better than at a larger catchment size. In view of climate change modelling, HBV-D and SWIM might be integrated in a dynamical atmosphere-water-cycle modelling rather than the ANN model due to their use of observed physical links instead of artificial relations within a black box
The real-time and high-precision trajectory prediction of a moving object is a core technology in the field of aerospace engineering. The real-time monitoring and tracking technology are also significant guarantees of aerospace equipment. A dynamic trajectory prediction method called grey dynamic filter (GDF) which combines the dynamic measurement theory and grey system theory is proposed. GDF can use coordinates of the current period to extrapolate coordinates of the following period. At meantime, GDF can also keep the instantaneity of measured coordinates by the metabolism model. In this paper the optimal model length of GDF is firstly selected to improve the prediction accuracy. Then the simulation for uniformly accelerated motion and variably accelerated motion is conducted. The simulation results indicate that the mean composite position error of GDF prediction is one-fifth to that of Kalman filter (KF). By using a spacecraft landing experiment, the prediction accuracy of GDF is compared with the KF method and the primitive grey method (GM). The results show that the motion trajectory of spacecraft predicted by GDF is much closer to actual trajectory than the other two methods. The mean composite position error calculated by GDF is one-eighth to KF and one-fifth to GM respectively.
This paper proposes a novel sensor scheduling scheme based on adaptive dynamic programming, which makes the sensor energy consumption and tracking error optimal over the system operational horizon for wireless sensor networks with solar energy harvesting. Neural network is used to model the solar energy harvesting. Kalman filter estimation technology is employed to predict the target location. A performance index function is established based on the energy consumption and tracking error. Critic network is developed to approximate the performance index function. The presented method is proven to be convergent. Numerical example shows the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Spatio-temporally continuous leaf area index (LAI) is required for surface process simulation, climate modelling and global change study. As a result of cloud contamination and other factors, the current LAI products are spatially and temporally discontinuous. A multi-sensor integration method was proposed in this paper to combine Terra-Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), Aqua-MODIS, FY (FengYun) 3A-MEdium Resolution Spectrum Imager (MERSI) and FY3B-MERSI data to improve LAI spatio-temporal continuity. It consists of a normalization algorithm to eliminate the difference between MODIS and MERSI data in spatial and spectral aspects, a daily LAI retrieval algorithm based on neural networks and a maximum value compositing algorithm. The feasibility of our LAI retrieval method to improve continuity was assessed at national scale (in China). Results show that (1) the combination of multi-sensor data can significantly improve LAI temporal continuity, especially for mountainous regions which are characterized by high frequency of cloud coverage; (2) the improvement in spatial continuity is obvious as can be seen from the increase of retrieval ratio, defined as the ratio of the number of retrieved pixels to the total number of pixels, from 0.78 for GEOV1 LAI product, and 0.88 for MOD15A2 LAI product to 0.98 for multi-sensor LAI product.
Soil hydraulic conductivity (K-s) is a crucial soil physical property that not only influences soil hydrological processes, but also the planning for vegetation recovery, irrigation practice and drainage design. However, K-s data are often lacking at large-scale soil database due to difficulties in direct measurement that is often labour intensive, time consuming and cost inefficient. The objective of this study was to compare the performance of different emerging methods [Multiple linear regression (MLR) and artificial neural network (ANN)] of K-s prediction. The pedotransfer function (PTF) is one such method that is based on selected factors closely correlated with K-s at regional scale. We collected disturbed and undisturbed soil samples in the 0-40 cm soil layer at 243 sites across the entire typical Loess Plateau of China (430,000 km(2)) and then measured K-s and the potentially related factors. The results showed that K-s was normally distributed with moderate a spatial variation (CV = 67%). Correlation analysis indicated that bulk density (BD), saturated soil water content (SSWC), clay content (Clay), silt content (Silt) and latitude were closely correlated (p < 0.05) with K-s. Although the accuracies of MLR and ANN were equal in terms of estimating K-s, the stability of PTF developed via ANN was not as good as that of MLR. Thus PTF developed via MLR, which included BD, Silt and Clay, was considered as the best model for estimating K-s. There is a need to closely monitor the stability and repeatability of PTF during comparison and determination of PTF. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Flexible metal oxide/graphene oxide hybrid multi-gate neuromorphic transistors are fabricated on flexible conducting graphene substrates. Dendritic integrations in both spatial and temporal modes are emulated, and spatiotemporal correlated logics are obtained. A proof-of-principle visual system model for emulating Lobula Giant Motion Detector neuron is also investigated. The results are of great significance for flexible sensors and neuromorphic cognitive systems.
The synchronization problem of linear over-actuated multi-agent systems with unmeasurable states is studied in this paper, under both limited communication data rate and switching topology flows. A class of adaptive quantized observer-based encoding-decoding schemes and a class of certainty equivalence principle-based control protocols are proposed. By developing the graph-based space decomposition technique and analyzing the closed-loop quantized dynamic equations, it is shown that if the network topology flow is jointly connected, the communication channels are periodic active, and the agent dynamics is observable, and with the orthogonal system matrix, the proposed communication and control protocols can ensure the closed-loop system to achieve synchronization exponentially fast with finite bits of information exchange per step. Copyright (C) 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Dielectric elastomers are a type of actuator materials that exhibit excellent performance as artificial muscles, but a high driving voltage is required for their operation. By using the amazingly high output voltage generated from a triboelectric nanogenerator (TENG), a thin film dielectric elastomer actuator (DEA) can be directly driven by the contact-separation motion of TENG, demonstrating a self-powered actuation system. A TENG with a tribo surface area of 100 cm(2) can induce an expansion strain of 14.5% for the DEA samples (electrode diameter of 0.6 cm) when the system works stably within the contact-separation velocity ranging from 0.1 to 10 cm s(-1). Finally, two simple prototypes of an intelligent switch and a self-powered clamper based on the TENG and DEA are demonstrated. These results prove that the dielectric elastomer is an ideal material to work together with TENG and thereby the fabricated actuation system can potentially be applied to the field of electronic skin and soft robotics.
The fact that the linear estimators using the rank-based Wilcoxon approach in linear regression problems are usually insensitive to outliers is known in statistics. Outliers are the data points that differ greatly from the pattern set by the bulk of the data. Inspired by this fact, Hsieh et al. introduced the Wilcoxon approach into the area of machine learning. They investigated four new learning machines, such as Wilcoxon neural network (WNN), and developed four gradient descent based backpropagation algorithms to train these learning machines. The performances of these machines are better than ordinary nonrobust neural networks in outliers exist tasks. However, it is hard to balance the learning speed and the stability of these algorithms which is inherently the drawback of gradient descent based algorithms. In this paper, a new algorithm is used to train the output weights of single-layer feedforward neural networks (SLFN) with input weights and biases being randomly chosen. This algorithm is called Wilcoxon-norm based robust extreme learning machine or WRELM for short. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper presents an adaptive dynamic programming-based guaranteed cost neural tracking control algorithm for a class of continuous-time matched uncertain nonlinear systems. By introducing an augmented system and employing a modified cost function with a discount factor, the guaranteed cost tracking control problem is transformed into an optimal tracking control problem. Unlike existing optimal tracking control algorithms often requiring the control matrix to be invertible, the developed control algorithm relaxes this restrictive condition under the assumption that the system is controllable. A single critic neural network (NN) is constructed to approximate the solution of the modified Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation corresponding to the nominal augmented error dynamics. Utilizing the newly developed critic NN, the optimal tracking control can be derived without policy iteration. All signals in the closed-loop system are proved to be uniformly ultimately bounded via Lyapunov's direct method. In addition, the developed control scheme is verified to guarantee that the tracking errors converge to an adjustable neighborhood of the origin. Two numerical examples are provided to illustrate the effectiveness and applicability of the developed approach. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
According to the thought "divide and conquer" that human perceives complicated things from multi-side and multi-view and balances the final decision, this paper puts forward the multi-sided multi-granular neural network ensemble optimization method based on feature selection, which divides attribute granularity of dataset from multi-side, and structures multi-granular individual neural networks using different attribute granularity and the corresponding subsets. In this way, we can gain multi-granular individual neural networks with greater diversity, and get better performance of neural network ensemble(NNE). Firstly, use feature selection method to calculate the importance of each attribute, according to the average weight to choose some attributes whose average weight is greater than a certain threshold, to form an attribute granularity and the corresponding sample subset, thus to construct an individual neural network. If samples are not properly identified, this attribute granularity is weak for the generalization ability of the sample. Secondly, again calculate the importance of the attributes of samples not properly identified, choose the attributes that can generalize the corresponding samples better, and add to the last attribute granularity to form a new attribute granularity, and at the same time random choose two-thirds of sample subset to construct an individual neural network. In turn, one can get a series of attribute granularities and the corresponding sample subsets and a series of multi-granular individual neural networks. These attribute granularities and the corresponding sample subsets constructed from multi-side and multi-view with greater diversity can construct multi-granular individual neural networks with greater diversity. This method not only reduces the dimension of the dataset, but also makes the attribute granularity to identify the corresponding sample as large as possible. Finally, by calculating the diversity of each of the two individual neural networks, optimal selects some individual neural networks with greater diversity to ensemble. The simulation experiments show that our proposed method here, multi-side multi-granular neural network ensemble optimization method, can gain better performance. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pedo-transfer functions (PTFs) have been widely used to estimate soil hydraulic properties in the simulation of catchment eco-hydrological processes. However, the accuracy of existing PTFs is usually inadequate for use. To develop PTFs for local use, soil columns were collected from a double rice-cropped agricultural catchment in subtropical central China. The PTFs for saturated soil hydraulic conductivity (K-s) and parameters ((s), , and n) of the van Genuchten model for the soil water retention curve (SWRC) were obtained based on soil's basic properties, and compared with models developed by Li et al. in 2007 and Wosten et al. in 1999, respectively. Our results indicated that K-s in the range of 0.04-1087cmd(-1) and (s) in the range of 0.34-0.51cm(3)cm(-3) were both well estimated with the R-adj(2) of 0.72 and 0.87, respectively, but (0.04-0.65cm(-1)) and n (1.05-1.21) were relatively poorly predicted with the respective R-adj(2) of 0.38 and 0.55, despite the use of more input parameters. Our local derived PTFs outperformed the other two existing models. However, if the local PTFs for paddy soils are not available, the Wosten et al. 1999 model can be proposed as a useful alternative. Therefore, this study can improve our understanding of the development and application of PTFs for predicting paddy soil hydraulic properties in China.
Cognitive behaviors are determined by underlying neural networks. Many brain functions, such as learning and memory, have been successfully described by attractor dynamics. For decision making in the brain, a quantitative description of global attractor landscapes has not yet been completely given. Here, we developed a theoretical framework to quantify the landscape associated with the steady state probability distributions and associated steady state curl flux, measuring the degree of non-equilibrium through the degree of detailed balance breaking for decision making. We quantified the decision-making processes with optimal paths from the undecided attractor states to the decided attractor states, which are identified as basins of attractions, on the landscape. Both landscape and flux determine the kinetic paths and speed. The kinetics and global stability of decision making are explored by quantifying the landscape topography through the barrier heights and the mean first passage time. Our theoretical predictions are in agreement with experimental observations: more errors occur under time pressure. We quantitatively explored two mechanisms of the speed-accuracy tradeoff with speed emphasis and further uncovered the tradeoffs among speed, accuracy, and energy cost. Our results imply that there is an optimal balance among speed, accuracy, and the energy cost in decision making. We uncovered the possible mechanisms of changes of mind and how mind changes improve performance in decision processes. Our landscape approach can help facilitate an understanding of the underlying physical mechanisms of cognitive processes and identify the key factors in the corresponding neural networks.
Chunk decomposition plays an important role in cognitive flexibility in particular with regards to representational change, which is critical for insight problem solving and creative thinking. In this study, we investigated the cognitive mechanism of decomposing Chinese character chunks through a parametric fMRI design. Our results from this parametric manipulation revealed widely distributed activations in frontal, parietal, and occipital cortex and negative activations in parietal and visual areas in response to chunk tightness during decomposition. To mentally manipulate the element of a given old chunk, superior parietal lobe appears to support element restructuring in a goal-directed way, whereas the negatively activated inferior parietal lobe may support preventing irrelevant objects from being attended. Moreover, determining alternative ways of restructuring requires a constellation of frontal areas in the cognitive control network, such as the right lateral prefrontal cortex in inhibiting the predominant chunk representations, the presupplementary motor area in initiating a transition of mental task set, and the inferior frontal junction in establishing task sets. In conclusion, this suggests that chunk decomposition reflects mental transformation of problem representation from an inappropriate state to a new one alongside with an evaluation of novel and insightful solutions by the caudate in the dorsal striatum.
In this paper,the problem of H-infinity filtering for a class of nonlinear discrete-time delay systems is investigated. The time delay is assumed to be belonging to a given interval, and the designed filter includes additive gain variations which are supposed to be random and satisfy the Bernoulli distribution. By the augmented Lyapunov functional approach, a sufficient condition is developed to ensure that the filtering error system is asymptotically mean-square stable with a prescribed H-infinity, performance. In addition, an improved result of H-infinity. filtering for linear system is also derived. The filter parameters are obtained by solving a set of linear matrix inequalities. For nonlinear systems, the applicability of the developed filtering result is confirmed by a longitudinal flight system, and an additional example for linear system is presented to demonstrate the less conservativeness of the proposed design method. (C) 2016 ISA. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A stock selection model with both discrete and continuous decision variables is proposed, in which a novel sigmoid-based mixed discrete-continuous differential evolution algorithm is especially developed for model optimization. In particular, a stock scoring mechanism is first designed to evaluate candidate stocks based on their fundamental and technical features, and the top-ranked stocks are selected to formulate an equal-weighted portfolio. Generally, the proposed model makes literature contributions from two main perspectives. First, to determine the optimal solution in terms of feature selections (discrete variables) and the corresponding weights (continuous variables), the original differential evolution algorithm focusing only on continuous problems is extended to a novel mixed discrete-continuous variant based on sigmoid-based conversion for the discrete part. Second, the stock selection model also resolves the gap of the application of differential evolution algorithm to stock selection. Using the Shanghai A share market of China as the study sample, the empirical results show that the novel stock selection model can make a profitable portfolio and significantly outperform its benchmarks (with other model designs and optimization algorithms used in the existing studies) in terms of both investment return and model robustness.
Bioinspired electronic whisker (e-whisker) arrays fabricated using pencil on paper are demonstrated for adaptive tactile sensing. The pencil-drawn e-whisker arrays with superior strain sensitivity, fast response (50 ms) and high durability/stability enable to monitor strains, build 3D spatial maps and detailed reconstruct objects' localization, orientation, and shape, and may have potential applications in advanced robotics, artificial intelligence, human-machine interfaces, and health monitoring systems.
This paper presents a multirobot pairwised transportation (MRPWT) approach for factory automated material and product deliveries. We consider MRPWT from the view-point of robotics and incorporate practical factory application constraints in the transportation method design. The proposed MRPWT approach is a two-level hybrid planning method, consisting of an incidental delivery based single robot level planner and a simulated annealing based robot group level planner. Each robot resolves its individual transportation plan incidentally to reduce the transportation cost, whereas the group level planner utilizes predefined random actions to search the task assignment solution space and then incorporates the simulated annealing algorithm to resolve the MRPWT problem as a combinatorial optimization problem. By implementing a distributed auction mechanism, the proposed MRPWT approach can be further extended to resolve the online task allocation or reallocation problem in dynamic environments. Experiments performed on a group of mobile robots successfully demonstrate the effectiveness and the practical applicability of the proposed MRPWT approach for factory automated material and product deliveries.
The state of charge (SOC) and state of health (SOH) are two of the most important parameters of Li-ion batteries in industrial production and in practical applications. The real-time estimation for these two parameters is crucial to realize a safe and reliable battery application. However, this is a great problem for LiFePO4 batteries due to the large constant potential plateau in the charge/discharge process. Here we propose a combined SOC and SOH co-estimation method based on the experimental test under the simulating electric vehicle working condition. A first-order resistance-capacitance equivalent circuit is used to model the battery cell, and three parameter values, ohmic resistance (R-s), parallel resistance (R-p) and parallel capacity (C-p), are identified from a real-time experimental test. Finally we find that R-p and C-p could be utilized to make a judgement on the SOH. More importantly, the linear relationship between C-p and the SOC is established to make the estimation of the SOC for the first time.
Designing dialog management (DM) policies that are robust to environmental noises is a nontrivial task. Approaches based on reinforcement learning (RL) are popular in academia and have been empirically shown to exhibit much better performance than handcrafted policies. However, the policies trained using RL are mostly incomprehensible, thus limiting the deployments for commercial applications. Policy optimization using genetic algorithm (GA) is a relatively new approach to spoken DM. The most notable advantage of this approach is that the trained policies can be directly interpreted by human experts. In this letter, we make several contributions to the GA-based framework. First, a structural policy learning procedure is presented. Second, a new fitness estimation method based on fitted policy evaluation is proposed. Finally, combining with these methods, an online evolutionary policy learning algorithm is designed which is much more data efficient than direct policy search using Monte Carlo simulations. These proposed approaches are empirically evaluated and compared with several state-of-the-art methods in a simulated environment. The experiments show favorable results for our approach.
Cross-modal retrieval emphasizes understanding inter-modality semantic correlations, which is often achieved by designing a similarity function. Generally, one of the most important things considered by the similarity function is how to make the cross-modal similarity computable. In this paper, a deep and bidirectional representation learning model is proposed to address the issue of image-text cross-modal retrieval. Owing to the solid progress of deep learning in computer vision and natural language processing, it is reliable to extract semantic representations from both raw image and text data by using deep neural networks. Therefore, in the proposed model, two convolution-based networks are adopted to accomplish representation learning for images and texts. By passing the networks, images and texts are mapped to a common space, in which the cross-modal similarity is measured by cosine distance. Subsequently, a bidirectional network architecture is designed to capture the property of the cross-modal retrieval-the bidirectional search. Such architecture is characterized by simultaneously involving the matched and unmatched image-text pairs for training. Accordingly, a learning framework with maximum likelihood criterion is finally developed. The network parameters are optimized via backpropagation and stochastic gradient descent. A great deal of experiments are conducted to sufficiently evaluate the proposed method on three publicly released datasets: IAPRTC-12, Flickr30k, and Flickr8k. The overall results definitely show that the proposed architecture is effective and the learned representations have good semantics to achieve superior cross-modal retrieval performance.
Traditional rehabilitation techniques have limited effects on the recovery of patients with tetraplegia. A brain-computer interface (BCI) provides an interactive channel that does not depend on the normal output of peripheral nerves and muscles. In this paper, an integrated framework of a noninvasive electroencephalogram (EEG)-based BCI with a noninvasive functional electrical stimulation (FES) is established, which can potentially enable the upper limbs to achieve more effective motor rehabilitation. The EEG signals based on steady-state visual evoked potential are used in the BCI. Their frequency domain characteristics identified by the pattern recognition method are utilized to recognize intentions of five subjects with average accuracy of 73.9%. Furthermore the movement intentions are transformed into instructions to trigger FES, which is controlled with iterative learning control method, to stimulate the relevant muscles of upper limbs tracking desired velocity and position. It is a useful technology with potential to restore, reinforce or replace lost motor function of patients with neurological injuries. Experiments with five healthy subjects demonstrate the feasibility of BCI integrated with upper extremity FES toward improved function restoration for an individual with upper limb disabilities, especially for patients with tetraplegia.
We propose a framework using artificial neural networks that predicts the IV characteristics of a superconducting thin film with square array of nano-engineered periodic anti dots, called holes. We adopt the conventionally used commercial physical properties measurement system to obtain a dataset comprising transport measurements, and use this dataset to train our artificial neural network. Once trained, the model is capable of predicting the curve for varying temperature and magnetic flux values, which are cross validated by the physical properties measurement system. Consistent with the works in literature, our framework suggests Josephson Junctions like behavior near transition temperature and at stronger magnetic fields. Our study is important since repeated measurements using the conventional method are time consuming and costly; we demonstrate that the proposed method may be effectively used to classify the IV characteristics over a wide range of temperature and magnetic field values. (c) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this article, a novel control scheme is proposed to solve the problem of robust and fast tracking control for the longitudinal model of a dual-control missile steered by a combination of aerodynamic fins and reaction jets in the presence of model uncertainties and external disturbances. The control scheme contains two aspects, one is the observer-based adaptive sliding mode control law of the control moment and the other is the fuzzy allocation method which assigns the control moment to the fins and the reaction jets. The main contributions of the article are as follows: (1) to compensate the disturbances and uncertainties on the sliding mode surface and enhance the system robustness, an observer-based sliding mode surface is designed; (2) an adaptive sliding mode control scheme is proposed by introducing an adaptive term derived from radical basis function network, which does not require knowledge of the bound of the system uncertainties and external disturbances. Meanwhile, it eliminates the chattering phenomenon without deteriorating the system fast-response characteristic and robustness; (3) a control-moment allocator based on fuzzy reasoning is designed to make the system respond fast while avoiding wasting of the reaction jets. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed control scheme is effective in improving control robustness and response rapidity.
A detailed understanding of soil hydraulic properties, particularly the available water content of soil, (AW, cm(3) cm(-3)), is required for optimal water management. Direct measurement of soil hydraulic properties is impractical for large scale application, but routinely available soil particle-size distribution (PSD) and bulk density can be used as proxies to develop various prediction functions. In this study, we compared the performance of the Arya and Paris (AP) model, Mohammadi and Vanclooster (MV) model, Arya and Heitman (AH) Model, and Rosetta program in predicting the soil water characteristic curve (SWCC) at 34 points with experimental SWCC data in an oasis-desert transect (20 x 5 km) in the middle reaches of the Heihe River basin, northwestern China. The idea of the three models emerges from the similarity of the shapes of the PSD and SWCC. The AP model, MV model, and Rosetta program performed better in predicting the SWCC than the AH model. The AW determined from the SWCCs predicted by the MV model agreed better with the experimental values than those derived from the AP model and Rosetta program. The fine-textured soils were characterized by higher AW values, while the sandy soils had lower AW values. The MV model has the advantages of having robust physical basis, being independent of database related parameters, and involving subclasses of texture data. These features make it promising in predicting soil water retention at regional scales, serving for the application of hydrological models and the optimization of soil water management. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper considers distributed tracking control of leader follower multi-agent systems with directed communication topologies. The directed communication graph needs to contain a spanning tree. It is supposed that the leader has the different internal dynamic with the followers, and each agent cannot measure the states' information of itself and its neighbors directly. Therefore a reduced-order observer is designed for the first time for the multi-agent systems which contains the external disturbance by using an appropriate transformation, and the state information of the agents can be divided into the measurable and unmeasurable parts. Then, distributed observer-based consensus protocols are proposed such that all the outputs of the followers reach a same trajectory with the leader's output, based on the relative outputs of neighboring agents. A multi-step algorithm is presented to construct the observer-based protocols. In light of the discrete-time algebraic Riccati equation and internal model principle, output synchronization problem is completed. The result is also extended to the continuous-time multi-agent systems. At last, numerical simulations are provided to verify the effectiveness of the theoretical results. (C) 2016 The Franklin Institute. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A method is proposed for rigid-flexible multibody dynamic modeling of concrete placing booms, to improve the calculation efficiency and ensure the accuracy. Concrete placing booms consist of four types of substructures, according to the slender rods and the mechanism features. The transfer matrixes of substructures are derived based on the discrete time transfer matrix method. Then, the manipulator's overall transfer matrix is assembled and used for the numerical calculation. An experiment based on a test rig is performed to validate the proposed method, and a model based on ADAMS (short of MSC.ADAMS) is also established to compare the calculating efficiency of the proposed method. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Wireless sensors are always deployed in brutal environments, but as we know, the nodes are powered only by non-replaceable batteries with limited energy. Sending, receiving and transporting information require the supply of energy. The essential problem of wireless sensor network (WSN) is to save energy consumption and prolong network lifetime. This paper presents a new communication protocol for WSN called Dynamical Threshold Control Algorithm with three-parameter Particle Swarm Optimization and Ant Colony Optimization based on residual energy (DPA). We first use the state of WSN to partition the region adaptively. Moreover, a three-parameter of particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm is proposed and a new fitness function is obtained. The optimal path among the CHs and Base Station (BS) is obtained by the ant colony optimization (ACO) algorithm based on residual energy. Dynamical threshold control algorithm (DTCA) is introduced when we re-select the CHs. Compared to the results obtained by using APSO, ANT and I-LEACH protocols, our DPA protocol tremendously prolongs the lifecycle of network. We observe 48.3%, 43.0%, and 24.9% more percentages of rounds respectively performed by DPA over APSO, ANT and I-LEACH.
Male signaling influences both female choice and male-male competition. Although male signaling characteristics and female preferences have been shown to coevolve in many species, few studies have examined whether male signal characteristics and male receiver responses related to male-male competition also coevolve. The present study tested the hypothesis that male and female signal receiver preferences may coevolve in parallel for frogs in the genus Babina by comparing the acoustic structure of male advertisement calls of four closely related and geographically isolated Babina species. Then we assessed the behavioral responses of both male and female B. daunchina (Emei music frog) to male call playbacks from each of the four species. The results support the hypothesis that male and female signal receiver preferences have coevolved in this species. Specifically, both male and female B. daunchina respond strongly to the heterospecific calls of B. hainanensis, suggesting that preexisting biases exist in both females and males. Both male and female individuals showed a slight response to the calls of B. adenopleura while no response was evoked by the calls of B. lini. The manifestation of similar response profiles in male and female B. daunchina to the calls of the four species support the idea that male and female signal receiver preferences evolved in parallel and that the origin of these receiver biases reflects adaptations dependent on the same neural and cognitive systems in both sexes.
In the past decade, proposed by Geoffrey Hinton, deep learning has been proved its powerful ability in processing data from lower level to higher level and gradually composes more and more semantic concepts by unsupervised feature learning for single modalities (e.g., text, images or audio). Usually a multi scale pyramid structure is applied in a layered deep learning neural network. But how to design a multi scale pyramid structure is still an open problem. At the same time, granular computing (GrC) has been an active topic of research in machine learning and computer vision. In this paper, inspired by the original insight of granular computing proposed by Zadeh, a generalized image-matting approach is defined in the framework of a novel Granular Deep Learning(GDL), in which the information similarity, proximity and functionality are very important for feature learning. We show that layered deep learning can be formally represented as a framework of a granular system defined by fuzzy logic. In this way, the pyramids or hierarchical structure of a layered deep learning neural network can be easily designed in such a granular system, i.e., the convolution pyramids or hierarchical convolutional factor analysis in the deep learning can be viewed as special cases of granular computing. The experiments show the effectiveness of our approach in the task of foreground and background separating. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Consensus problem of high-order integral multi-agent systems under switching directed topology is considered in this study. Depending on whether the agent's full state is available or not, two distributed protocols are proposed to ensure that states of all agents can be convergent to a same stationary value. In the proposed protocols, the gain vector associated with the agent's (estimated) state and the gain vector associated with the relative (estimated) states between agents are designed in a sophisticated way. By this particular design, the high-order integral multi-agent system can be transformed into a first-order integral multi-agent system. Also, the convergence of the transformed first-order integral agent's state indicates the convergence of the original high-order integral agent's state, if and only if all roots of the polynomial, whose coefficients are the entries of the gain vector associated with the relative (estimated) states between agents, are in the open left-half complex plane. Therefore, many analysis techniques in the first-order integral multi-agent system can be directly borrowed to solve the problems in the high-order integral multi-agent system. Due to this property, it is proved that to reach a consensus, the switching directed topology of multi-agent system is only required to be uniformly jointly quasi-strongly connected', which seems the mildest connectivity condition in the literature. In addition, the consensus problem of discrete-time high-order integral multi-agent systems is studied. The corresponding consensus protocol and performance analysis are presented. Finally, three simulation examples are provided to show the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
The rapid growth of deformable and stretchable electronics calls for a deformable and stretchable power source. We report a scalable approach for energy harvesters and self-powered sensors that can be highly deformable and stretchable. With conductive liquid contained in a polymer cover, a shape-adaptive triboelectric nanogenerator (saTENG) unit can effectively harvest energy in various working modes. The saTENG can maintain its performance under a strain of as large as 300%. The saTENG is so flexible that it can be conformed to any three-dimensional and curvilinear surface. We demonstrate applications of the saTENG as a wearable power source and self-powered sensor to monitor bio-mechanical motion. A bracelet-like saTENG worn on the wrist can light up more than 80 light-emitting diodes. Owing to the highly scalable manufacturing process, the saTENG can be easily applied for large-area energy harvesting. In addition, the saTENG can be extended to extract energy from mechanical motion using flowing water as the electrode. This approach provides a new prospect for deformable and stretchable power sources, as well as self-powered sensors, and has potential applications in various areas such as robotics, biomechanics, physiology, kinesiology, and entertainment.
The detection of planes from 3D point clouds plays an important role in fields such as 3D modelling, rock mechanics, registration and robotics. A multi-scale plane-detection method is proposed, based on extracting growth units using the Hough transform and subsequent region growing into actual plane boundaries. Because the approximate geometric features of the original plane area can be obtained from the growth units, discriminant conditions for adaptive plane growing could be provided for the growing stage. In order to detect physical planes at different scales, a strategy of multi-scale normal estimation is introduced. Simulated icosahedron point clouds, together with actual engineering point clouds, were used to test the performance of the proposed method. Experimental results show that planar point clouds could be detected effectively, especially with rock-mass engineering applications.
In this article, the concept of constraint factor is proposed, and a new hysteretic operator consisting of a constraint factor and a polynomial is presented. Based on the constructed hysteretic operator, the one-to-multiple mapping of hysteresis is transformed into one-to-one mapping by expanding the input space, so that the mapping between the expanded input space and the output space comprises one-to-one and multiple-to-one mappings. Finally, a neural network is employed to approximate hysteresis for piezoelectric actuators. The validation performance of experimental tests suggests that the proposed approach is effective.
A precise robotic assembly for large-scale objects is an important application in manufacture. In this paper, we design a new assembly system for large-scale objects based on automatic guidance and alignment with two cameras and three laser distance sensors. The corresponding strategy consists of three stages. First, the object is guided from a remote position to a close one based on our proposed link-line model-based polygon detection and Computer Aided Design (CAD) View method. Second, the object is aligned to the installation framework based on the proposed visual and laser alignment method. Finally, the object is automatically inserted into the installation framework. An accurate easily applying and close-loop hand-eye calibration method is also proposed. The proposed assembly system has high assembly precision and efficiency. In our test for a 710 mmx625 mm optical module, the maximum 6-DOF localization error of guidance and alignment is 0.53 mm in translation and 0.10 degrees in orientation. The mechanical constraint-based controlling accuracy, i.e., the final assembly accuracy, is up to 0.2 mm in translation.
A class of nonlinear multiagent systems with time delays and external noises is investigated, and a distributed adaptive robust control protocol is developed. It is the first time for a class of multiagent systems to take both time delays and external noises into consideration. By virtue of Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional and Young's inequality, the effects of time delay can be eliminated. Then, to exclude external noises, a robustifying term is introduced to eliminate the negative effects of these noises. Moreover, neural networks are utilized to learn the unknown nonlinear terms to adapt to the complex external environment. Finally, a numerical simulation is conducted to validate the effectiveness of our distributed control protocol.
Saliency detection has been a hot topic in recent years, and many efforts have been devoted in this area. Unfortunately, the results of saliency detection can hardly be utilized in general applications. The primary reason, we think, is unspecific definition of salient objects, which makes that the previously published methods cannot extend to practical applications. To solve this problem, we claim that saliency should be defined in a context and the salient band selection in hyperspectral image (HSI) is introduced as an example. Unfortunately, the traditional salient band selection methods suffer from the problem of inappropriate measurement of band difference. To tackle this problem, we propose to eliminate the drawbacks of traditional salient band selection methods by manifold ranking. It puts the band vectors in the more accurate manifold space and treats the saliency problem from a novel ranking perspective, which is considered to be the main contributions of this paper. To justify the effectiveness of the proposed method, experiments are conducted on three HSIs, and our method is compared with the six existing competitors. Results show that the proposed method is very effective and can achieve the best performance among the competitors.
Short-term traffic flow prediction in urban area remains a difficult yet important problem in intelligent transportation systems. Current spatio-temporal-based urban traffic flow prediction techniques trend aims to discover the relationship between adjacent upstream and downstream road segments using specific models, while in this paper, we advocate to exploit the spatial and temporal information from all available road segments in a partial road network. However, the available traffic states can be high dimensional for high-density road networks. Therefore, we propose a spatio-temporal variable selection-based support vector regression (VS-SVR) model fed with the high-dimensional traffic data collected from all available road segments. Our prediction model can be presented as a two-stage framework. In the first stage, we employ the multivariate adaptive regression splines model to select a set of predictors most related to the target one from the high-dimensional spatio-temporal variables, and different weights are assigned to the selected predictors. In the second stage, the kernel learning method, support vector regression, is trained on the weighted variables. The experimental results on the real-world traffic volume collected from a sub-area of Shanghai, China, demonstrate that the proposed spatio-temporal VS-SVR model outperforms the state-of-the-art. Copyright (c) 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Consensus of multiagent systems (MASs) is an intriguing topic in recent years due to its widely used application in robotics, biology, computer, and social science. In the real world, the evolution of MAS is inevitably involved in dynamical environments and the recent development of MAS calls for novel tools for the analysis of MAS with dynamic topology. In addition, the interactions between agents are generally nonlinear and environmental noises are ubiquitous in the communication channels between agents. However, the existing investigation on MAS places little attention on nonlinear models and the inner relationship between external disturbance and consensus is still unclear. Facing these problems, this paper considers an MAS in which the interactions between agents are nonlinear and the communication between agents are infected by environmental noises. By using a novel method of nonsmooth Lyapunov candidate, it has been demonstrated that such an MAS can realize robust consensus under the conditions of jointly (sequentially) connected topology and bounded noises. Finally, simulation results validate the effectiveness of these criteria.
An advanced control scheme for managing a hybrid energy generation system (HEGS) is presented in this paper. A hierarchical management and control architecture based on multi-agent systems (MAS) is discussed. MAS will account for the complex behavior of a hybrid energy supply system. The management and control strategies are implemented through a system of agents based on three tiers. The upper level agents develop overall energy management strategies for a hybrid energy supply system. The middle-level agents integrate coordinated switching controllers. The lower level agents are responsible for dealing with local control strategies. Coordinated switching controllers within the middle-level agents are designed as event-triggered hybrid controllers based on differential hybrid Petri-net (DHPN) models. The operation modes of distributed energy resources (DERs) can smoothly transfer in a coordinated manner due to the coordinated action of the switching controllers according to variation in operating conditions. Finally, simulation results from different scenarios verifying the feasibility of the proposed scheme are offered.
The paper describes a new type of evolving connectionist systems (ECOS) called evolving spatio-temporal data machines based on neuromorphic, brain-like information processing principles (eSTDM). These are multi-modular computer systems designed to deal with large and fast spatio/spectro temporal data using spiking neural networks (SNN) as major processing modules. ECOS and eSTDM in particular can learn incrementally from data streams, can include 'on the fly' new input variables, new output class labels or regression outputs, can continuously adapt their structure and functionality, can be visualised and interpreted for new knowledge discovery and for a better understanding of the data and the processes that generated it. eSTDM can be used for early event prediction due to the ability of the SNN to spike early, before whole input vectors (they were trained on) are presented. A framework for building eSTDM called NeuCube along with a design methodology for building eSTDM using this is presented. The implementation of this framework in MATLAB, Java, and PyNN (Python) is presented. The latter facilitates the use of neuromorphic hardware platforms to run the eSTDM. Selected examples are given of eSTDM for pattern recognition and early event prediction on EEG data, fMRI data, multisensory seismic data, ecological data, climate data, audio-visual data. Future directions are discussed, including extension of the NeuCube framework for building neurogenetic eSTDM and also new applications of eSTDM. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Speech separation and pitch estimation in noisy conditions are considered to be a "chicken-and-egg" problem. On one hand, pitch information is an important cue for speech separation. On the other hand, speech separation makes pitch estimation easier when background noise is removed. In this paper, we propose a supervised learning architecture to solve these two problems iteratively. The proposed algorithm is based on the deep stacking network (DSN), which provides a method for stacking simple processing modules to build deep architectures. Each module is a classifier whose target is the ideal binary mask (IBM), and the input vector includes spectral features, pitch-based features and the output from the previous module. During the testing stage, we estimate the pitch using the separation results and update the pitch-based features to the next module. When embedded into the DSN, pitch estimation and speech separation each run several times. We obtain the final results from the last module. Systematic evaluations show that the proposed system results in both a high quality estimated binary mask and accurate pitch estimation and outperforms recent systems in its generalization ability.
Many neural network methods such as ML-RBF and BP-MLL have been used for multi-label classification. Recently, extreme learning machine (ELM) is used as the basic elements to handle multi-label classification problem because of its fast training time. Extreme learning machine based auto encoder (ELM-AE) is a novel method of neural network which can reproduce the input signal as well as auto encoder, but it can not solve the over-fitting problem in neural networks elegantly. Introducing weight uncertainty into ELM-AE, we can treat the input weights as random variables following Gaussian distribution and propose weight uncertainty ELM-AE (WuELM-AE). In this paper, a neural network named multi layer ELM-RBF for multi-label learning (ML-ELM-RBF) is proposed. It is derived from radial basis function for multi-label learning (ML-RBF) and WuELM-AE. ML-ELM-RBF firstly stacks WuELM-AE to create a deep network, and then it conducts clustering analysis on samples features of each possible class to compose the last hidden layer. ML-ELM-RBF has achieved satisfactory results on single-label and multi-label data sets. Experimental results show that WuELM-AE and ML-ELM-RBF are effective learning algorithms. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To enhance prediction reliability and accuracy, a hybrid model based on the promising principle of "decomposition and ensemble" and a recently proposed meta-heuristic called grey wolf optimizer (GWO) is introduced for daily PM2.5 concentration forecasting. Compared with existing PM2.5 forecasting methods, this proposed model has improved the prediction accuracy and hit rates of directional prediction. The proposed model involves three main steps, i.e., decomposing the original PM2.5 series into several intrinsic mode functions (IMFs) via complementary ensemble empirical mode decomposition (CEEMD) for simplifying the complex data; individually predicting each IMF with support vector regression (SVR) optimized by GWO; integrating all predicted IMFs for the ensemble result as the final prediction by another SVR optimized by GWO. Seven benchmark models, including single artificial intelligence (AI) models, other decomposition-ensemble models with different decomposition methods and models with the same decomposition-ensemble method but optimized by different algorithms, are considered to verify the superiority of the proposed hybrid model. The empirical study indicates that the proposed hybrid decomposition-ensemble model is remarkably superior to all considered benchmark models for its higher prediction accuracy and hit rates of directional prediction. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recent deep learning models have demonstrated strong capabilities for classifying text and non-text components in natural images. They extract a high-level feature globally computed from a whole image component (patch), where the cluttered background information may dominate true text features in the deep representation. This leads to less discriminative power and poorer robustness. In this paper, we present a new system for scene text detection by proposing a novel text-attentional convolutional neural network (Text-CNN) that particularly focuses on extracting text-related regions and features from the image components. We develop a new learning mechanism to train the Text-CNN with multi-level and rich supervised information, including text region mask, character label, and binary text/non-text information. The rich supervision information enables the Text-CNN with a strong capability for discriminating ambiguous texts, and also increases its robustness against complicated background components. The training process is formulated as a multi-task learning problem, where low-level supervised information greatly facilitates the main task of text/non-text classification. In addition, a powerful low-level detector called contrast-enhancement maximally stable extremal regions (MSERs) is developed, which extends the widely used MSERs by enhancing intensity contrast between text patterns and background. This allows it to detect highly challenging text patterns, resulting in a higher recall. Our approach achieved promising results on the ICDAR 2013 data set, with an F-measure of 0.82, substantially improving the state-of-the-art results.
The intelligent analysis of video data is currently in wide demand because a video is a major source of sensory data in our lives. Text is a prominent and direct source of information in video, while the recent surveys of text detection and recognition in imagery focus mainly on text extraction from scene images. Here, this paper presents a comprehensive survey of text detection, tracking, and recognition in video with three major contributions. First, a generic framework is proposed for video text extraction that uniformly describes detection, tracking, recognition, and their relations and interactions. Second, within this framework, a variety of methods, systems, and evaluation protocols of video text extraction are summarized, compared, and analyzed. Existing text tracking techniques, tracking-based detection and recognition techniques are specifically highlighted. Third, related applications, prominent challenges, and future directions for video text extraction (especially from scene videos and web videos) are also thoroughly discussed.
In this paper, we applied the Taguchi method to evaluate the maximum swimming speed of a robotic fish under the limitation of the output of the motor. Four factors were considered in the optimization: the caudal-fin aspect ratio, the caudal fin stiffness, the oscillating frequency and the stiffness of the spring that transmits forces from the actuators to the foil. Because of the power limitations, the parameter's space was irregular. Since the Taguchi method requires a regular parameter space, we divided the parameter space into a regular space and the remaining irregular spaces. Within only 25 trials, the frequency and the spring stiffness were determined as the main factors in the regular space by the orthogonal design. Six more trials were carried out in the remaining irregular space with a higher frequency and spring stiffness. The fastest swimming speed of 870 mm/s, approximately 2.6 BL (Body Lengths)/s, was acquired, when the frequency reached 12Hz and with infinite spring stiffness. This method is efficient for exploring the maximum locomotor capabilities of robotic fish and may also be useful for other robots as no modelling is required.
In this paper, a nearly data-based optimal control scheme is proposed for linear discrete model-free systems with delays. The nearly optimal control can be obtained using only measured input/output data from systems, by reinforcement learning technology, which combines Q-learning with value iterative algorithm. First, we construct a state estimator by using the measured input/output data. Second, the quadratic functional is used to approximate the value function at each point in the state space, and the data-based control is designed by Q-learning method using the obtained state estimator. Then, the paper states the method, that is, how to solve the optimal inner kernel matrix (P) over bar in the least-square sense, by value iteration algorithm. Finally, the numerical examples are given to illustrate the effectiveness of our approach.
Proton-conducting graphene oxide electrolyte films with very high electric-double-layer capacitance are used as the gate dielectrics for oxide-based neuron transistor fabrication. Paired-pulse facilitation, dendritic integration, and orientation tuning are successfully emulated. Additionally, neuronal gain controls (arithmetic) are also experimentally demonstrated. The results provide a new-concept approach for building brain-inspired cognitive systems.
This paper studies the problem of semi-global leader-following output consensus of a multi-agent system. The output of each follower agent in the system, described by a same general linear system subject to external disturbances and actuator saturation, is to track the output of the leader, described by a linear system, which also generates disturbances as the exosystem does in the classical output regulation problem. Conditions on the agent dynamics are identified, under which a low-gain feedback-based linear state-control algorithm is constructed for each follower agent such that the output consensus is achieved when the communication topology among the agents is a digraph containing no loop, and the leader is reachable from any follower agent. We also extend the results to the non-identical disturbance case. In this case, conditions based on both the agent dynamics and the communication topology are identified, under which a low-gain feedback-based linear state-control algorithm is constructed for each follower agent such that the leader-following output consensus is achieved when the communication topology among the follower agents is a strongly connected and detailed balanced digraph, and the leader is a neighbor of at least one follower. In addition, under some further conditions on the agent dynamics, the control algorithm is adapted so as to achieve semi-global leader-following output consensus for a jointly connected undirected graph and the leader reachable from at least one follower. Copyright (c) 2015John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
In this paper, an efficient and robust level set method is presented to segment the images with intensity inhomogeneity. The multi-scale segmentation idea is incorporated into energy functional construction and a new Hermite differential operator is designed to numerically solve the level set evolution equation. Firstly, the circular shape window is used to define local region so as to approximate the image as well as intensity inhomogeneity. Then, multi-scale statistical analysis is performed on intensities of local circular regions centered in each pixel. So, the multi-scale local energy term can be constructed by fitting multi scale approximation of inhomogeneity-free image in a piecewise constant way. To avoid the time-consuming re-initialization procedure, a new double-well potential function is adopted to construct the penalty energy term. Finally, the multi-scale segmentation is performed by minimizing the total energy functional. Here, a new differential operator based on Hermite polynomial interpolation is proposed to solve the minimization. The experiments and comparisons with three popular local region-based methods on images with different levels of intensity inhomogeneity have demonstrated the efficiency and robustness of the proposed method. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper is concerned with the modeling of advertiser behaviors in sponsored search. Modeling advertiser behaviors can help search engines better serve advertisers, improve auction mechanism, and forecast future revenue. Previous works on this topic either unrealistically assume advertisers to be able to perceive the states of the sponsored search system and the private information of other advertisers or ignore the differences in advertisers' abilities to optimize their bid strategies. To tackle the problems, we propose viewing sponsored search auctions as partially observable multi-agent system with private information. Then, we employ a reinforcement learning behavior model to describe how each advertiser responds to this multi-agent system. The proposed model no longer assumes advertisers to have perfect information access, but instead assumes them to optimize their strategies only based on the partially observed states in the auctions. Furthermore, the model does not specify how the optimization is conducted, but instead uses parameters learned from data to describe different advertisers' abilities in obtaining the optimal strategies. Our experiments on real sponsored search data demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms previous models in predicting the bids and rank positions of the advertisers in the near future. In addition to the accurate prediction of these short-term behaviors, our study shows another nice property of the proposed model. That is, if all the advertisers behave according to the model, the multi-agent system of sponsored search will converge to a locally envy-free equilibrium, under certain conditions. This result establishes a connection between machine-learned behavior models and game-theoretic properties of the system. Copyright (c) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
In this paper, Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information using Artificial Neural Networks-Climate Data Record (PERSIANN-CDR) is analyzed for the assessment of meteorological drought. The evaluation is conducted over China at 0.5 degrees spatial resolution against a ground-based gridded China monthly Precipitation Analysis Product (CPAP) from 1983 to 2014 (32 years). The Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) at various time scales (1 month to 12 months) is calculated for detecting drought events. The results show that PERSIANN-CDR depicts similar drought behavior as the ground-based CPAP in terms of capturing the spatial and temporal patterns of drought events over eastern China, where the intensity of gauge networks and the frequency of droughts are high. 6-month SPI shows the best agreement with CPAP in identifying drought months. However, large differences between PERSIANN-CDR and CPAP in depicting drought patterns and identifying specific drought events are found over northwestern China, particularly in Xinjiang and Qinghai-Tibet Plateau region. Factors behind this may be due to the relatively sparse gauge networks, the complicated terrain and the performance of PERSIANN algorithm.
Because of hydrodynamic model error of the present dynamic model, there is a challenge in controller design for the underwater snake-like robot. To tackle this challenge, this paper proposes an adaptive control schemes based on dynamic model for a planar, underwater snake-like robot with model error and time-varying noise. The adaptive control schemes aim to achieve the adaptive control of joint angles tracking and the direction of locomotion control. First, through approximation and reducibility using Taylor expansion method, a simplified dynamics model of a planar amphibious snake-like robot is derived. Then, the L1 adaptive controller based on piecewise constant adaptive law is applied on the simplified planar, underwater snake-like robot, which can deal with both matched and unmatched nonlinear uncertainties. Finally, to control the direction of locomotion, an auxiliary bias signal is used as the control input to regulate the locomotion direction. Simulation results show that this L1 adaptive controller is valid to deal with different uncertainties and achieve the joint angles tracking and fast adaptive at the same time. The modified L1 adaptive controller, in which the auxiliary bias item is added, has the ability to change the direction of locomotion, that is, the orientation angle is periodic with arbitrarily given constant on average.
In this correspondence paper, the robust stabilization of a class of discrete-time nonlinear systems with uncertainties is investigated by using an approximate optimal control approach. The robust control problem is transformed into an optimal control problem under some proper restrictions on the bound of the uncertainties. For the purpose of dealing with the transformed optimal control, the discrete-time generalized Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation is introduced and then solved using the successive approximation method with neural network implementation. In addition, a numerical simulation is included to illustrate the effectiveness of the robust control strategy.
These days wavelet analysis is becoming popular for hydrological time series simulation and forecasting. There are, however, a set of key issues influencing the wavelet-aided data preprocessing and modeling practice that need further discussion. This article discusses four key issues related to wavelet analysis: discrepant use of continuous and discrete wavelet methods, choice of mother wavelet, choice of temporal scale, and uncertainty evaluation in wavelet-aided forecasting. The article concludes with a personal reflection on solving the four issues for improving and supplementing relevant wavelet studies, especially wavelet-based artificial intelligence modeling. (C) 2016 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Stokes inversion calculation is a key process in resolving polarization information on radiation from the Sun and obtaining the associated vector magnetic fields. Even in the cases of simple local thermodynamic equilibrium (LTE) and where the Milne-Eddington approximation is valid, the inversion problem may not be easy to solve. The initial values for the iterations are important in handling the case with multiple minima. In this paper, we develop a fast inversion technique without iterations. The time taken for computation is only 1/100 the time that the iterative algorithm takes. In addition, it can provide available initial values even in cases with lower spectral resolutions. This strategy is useful for a filter-type Stokes spectrograph, such as SDO/HMI and the developed two-dimensional real-time spectrograph (2DS).
An optimal control method is developed for unknown continuous-time systems with unknown disturbances in this paper. The integral reinforcement learning (IRL) algorithm is presented to obtain the iterative control. Off-policy learning is used to allow the dynamics to be completely unknown. Neural networks are used to construct critic and action networks. It is shown that if there are unknown disturbances, off-policy IRL may not converge or may be biased. For reducing the influence of unknown disturbances, a disturbances compensation controller is added. It is proven that the weight errors are uniformly ultimately bounded based on Lyapunov techniques. Convergence of the Hamiltonian function is also proven. The simulation study demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed optimal control method for unknown systems with disturbances.
Most studies on bilateral teleoperation assume known system kinematics and only consider dynamical uncertainties. However, many practical applications involve tasks with both kinematics and dynamics uncertainties. In this paper, trilateral teleoperation systems with dual-master-single-slave framework are investigated, where a single robotic manipulator constrained by an unknown geometrical environment is controlled by dual masters. The network delay in the teleoperation system is modeled as Markov chain-based stochastic delay, then asymmetric stochastic time-varying delays, kinematics and dynamics uncertainties are all considered in the force-motion control design. First, a unified dynamical model is introduced by incorporating unknown environmental constraints. Then, by exact identification of constraint Jacobian matrix, adaptive neural network approximation method is employed, and the motion/force synchronization with time delays are achieved without persistency of excitation condition. The neural networks and parameter adaptive mechanism are combined to deal with the system uncertainties and unknown kinematics. It is shown that the system is stable with the strict linear matrix inequality-based controllers. Finally, the extensive simulation experiment studies are provided to demonstrate the performance of the proposed approach.
There are multiple challenges in face detection, including illumination conditions and diverse poses of the user. Prior works tend to detect faces by segmentation at pixel level, which are generally not computationally efficient. When people are sitting in the car, which can be regarded as single face situations, most face detectors fail to detect faces under various poses and illumination conditions. In this paper, we propose a simple but efficient approach for single face detection. We train a deep learning model that reconstructs face directly from input image by removing background and synthesizing 3D data for only the face region. We apply the proposed model to two public 3D face datasets, and obtain significant improvements in false rejection rate (FRR) of 4.6% (from 4.6% to 0.0%) and 21.7% (from 30.2% to 8.5%), respectively, compared with state-of-art performances in two datasets. Furthermore, we show that our reconstruction approach can be applied using 1/2 the time of a widely used real-time face detector. These results demonstrate that the proposed Reconstruction ConNet (RN) is both more accurate and efficient for real-time face detection than prior works.
Wide field view (WFV) sensor on board the Chinese GF-1, the first satellite of the China High-resolution Earth Observation System, is acquiring multi-spectral data with decametric spatial resolution, high temporal resolution and wide coverage, which are valuable data sources for environment monitoring. The objective of this study is to develop a general and reliable fractional vegetation cover (FVC) estimation algorithm for GF-1 WFV data under various land surface conditions. The algorithm is expected to estimate FVC from GF-1 WFV reflectance data with spatial resolution of 16 m and temporal resolution of four dates. The proposed algorithm is based on training back propagation neural networks (NNs) using PROSPECT + SAIL radiative transfer model simulations for GF-1 WFV canopy reflectance and corresponding FVC values. Green, red and near-infrared bands' reflectances of GF-1 WFV data are the input variables of the NNs, as well as the corresponding FVC is the output variable, and finally 842,400 simulated samples covering various land surface conditions are used for training the NNs. A case study in Weichang County of China, having abundant land cover types, was conducted to validate the performance of the proposed FVC estimation algorithm for GF-1 WFV data. The validation results showed that the proposed algorithm worked effectively and generated reasonable FVC estimates with R-2 = 0.790 and root mean square error of 0.073 based on the field survey data. The proposed algorithm can be operated without prior knowledge on the land cover and has the potential for routine production of high quality FVC products using GF-1 WFV surface reflectance data. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc All rights reserved.
Many disorders are associated with abnormalities in colonic motility; thus, studying colonic motility is important to optimal management. This paper aimed to extract efficient features that characterize colonic motility, observe regional differences of colonic motility, and develop an effective and automated method for classifying colonic motility. Unlike the existing methods for analyzing the colonic motility, 27 features were extracted from 16 healthy subjects and 32 patients with constipation based on wavelet coefficients. Thereafter, the Wilcoxon rank sum test was used to select features, and finally, the adaboost-backpropagation neural network was used to classify the colonic motility. To evaluate the performance of the proposed method, the results were compared with the support vector machine and the back propagation network according to sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy. High prediction accuracy, sensitivity, and specificity confirm the effectiveness of the proposed methodology.
Natural gas has increasingly appeared as an important policy choice for China's government to modify high carbon energy consumption structure and deal with environmental problems. This study is aimed to develop the logistic and logistic-population model based approach to forecast the medium-(2020) to long-(2035) term natural gas demand in China. The adopted modelling approach is relatively simple, compared with other forecasting approaches. In order to further improve the forecasting precision, the Levenberg-Marquardt Algorithm (LMA) has been implemented to estimate the parameters of the logistic model. The forecasting results show that China's natural gas demand will reach 330-370 billion m(3) in the medium-term and 500-590 billion m(3) in the long-term. Moreover, the forecasting results of this study were found close in studies conducted by the national and international institutions and scholars. The growing natural gas demand will cause significant increase in import requirements and will increase China's natural gas import dependency. The outcomes of this study are expected to assist the energy planners and policy makers to chalk out relevant natural gas supply and demand side management policies. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
High accuracy scanned sunspot drawings handwritten characters recognition is an issue of critical importance to analyze sunspots movement and store them in the database. This paper presents a robust deep learning method for scanned sunspot drawings handwritten characters recognition. The convolution neural network (CNN) is one algorithm of deep learning which is truly successful in training of multi-layer network structure. CNN is used to train recognition model of handwritten character images which are extracted from the original sunspot drawings. We demonstrate the advantages of the proposed method on sunspot drawings provided by Chinese Academy Yunnan Observatory and obtain the daily full-disc sunspot numbers and sunspot areas from the sunspot drawings. The experimental results show that the proposed method achieves a high recognition accurate rate. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A differential-algebraic prey-predator system with commercial harvesting on predator is proposed, where maturation delay for prey and gestation delay for predator are considered. Since commercial harvesting is dynamically influenced by variation of economic interest, we will investigate combined dynamic effects of double time delays and economic interest on population dynamics. Positivity of solutions and uniform persistence of system are studied. In the absence of time delay, by taking economic interest as bifurcation parameter, existence of singularity induced bifurcation is investigated based on differential-algebraic system theory. State feedback controllers are designed to eliminate singularity induced bifurcation and stabilize the proposed system around corresponding interior equilibrium. In the presence of double time delays, by analyzing associated characteristic transcendental equation, it is found that interior equilibrium loses local stability when double time delays cross corresponding critical values. According to Hopf bifurcation theorem for functional differential equation, existence of Hopf bifurcation is investigated as local stability switches. Based on normal form theory and center manifold theorem, directions of Hopf bifurcation and stability of the bifurcating periodic solutions are studied. Numerical simulations are carried out to show consistency with theoretical analysis. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Previous studies suggested that the Qianjiangping landslide was caused by the combined effect of rainfall and reservoir water after the first water storage of the Three Gorges Reservoir. The Sanmendong landslide with a length of 830 m, an area of 2.49 x 10(5) m(2), an average thickness of 22 m and a volume of 5.48 x 10(5) m(3), which is located by the Qinggan river, a tributary of the Yangtze River, is only 4 km away from another famous landslide along the same river: the Qianjiangping landslide. Based on the experimental data of mechanical parameters of the landslide and displacement monitoring, a nonlinear mapping relationship between mechanical parameters of the failure mass and the displacement of landslide were established by using genetic algorithms by means of uniform design, numerical calculation and artificial neural networks. The mechanical parameters of the failure mass are obtained by the global minimization of the deviation between the calculated displacements and the monitored displacements. On this basis, the deformation mechanism of the Sanmendong landslide under the combined effect of rainfall and reservoir water level fluctuations was analyzed in detail. The results indicated that the increase of displacement of Sanmendong landslide can be primarily attributed to the combined result of reservoir water level fluctuation and rainfall. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To fast and accurately compute rate coefficients of the H/D + CH4 -> H-2/HD + CH3 reactions, we propose a segmented strategy for fitting suitable potential energy surface (PES), on which ring-polymer molecular dynamics (RPMD) simulations are performed. On the basis of recently developed permutation invariant polynomial neural-network approach [J. Li et al., J. Chem. Phys. 142, 204302 (2015)], PESs in local configuration spaces are constructed. In this strategy, global PES is divided into three parts, including asymptotic, intermediate, and interaction parts, along the reaction coordinate. Since less fitting parameters are involved in the local PESs, the computational efficiency for operating the PES routine is largely enhanced by a factor of similar to 20, comparing with that for global PES. On interaction part, the RPMD computational time for the transmission coefficient can be further efficiently reduced by cutting off the redundant part of the child trajectories. For H + CH4, good agreements among the present RPMD rates and those from previous simulations as well as experimental results are found. For D + CH4, on the other hand, qualitative agreement between present RPMD and experimental results is predicted. Published by AIP Publishing.
A solar radiation forecasting model can be utilized is a scientific contrivance for investigating future viability of solar energy potentials. In this paper, a wavelet-coupled support vector machine (W-SVM) model was adopted to forecast global incident solar radiation based on the sunshine hours (S-t), minimum temperature (T-max), maximum temperature (T-max), windspeed (U), evaporation (E) and precipitation (P) as the predictor variables. To ascertain conclusive results, the merit of the W-SVM was benchmarked with the classical SVM model. For daily forecasting, sixteen months of data (01-March-2014 to 30-June-2015) partitioned into the train (65%) and test (35%) set for the three metropolitan stations (Brisbane City, Cairns Aero and Townsville Aero) were utilized. Data were decomposed into their wavelet sub-series by discrete wavelet transformation algorithm and summed up to create new series with one approximation and four levels of detail using Daubechies-2 mother wavelet. For daily forecasting, six model scenarios were formulated where the number of input was increased and the forecast was assessed by statistical metrics (correlation coefficient r; Willmott's index d; Nash-Sutcliffe coefficient E-Ns; peak deviation P-dv), distribution statistics and prediction errors (mean absolute error MAE; root mean square error RMSE; mean absolute percentage error MAPE; relative root mean square error RMSE). Results for daily forecasts showed that the W-SVM model outperformed the classical SVM model for optimum input combinations. A sensitivity analysis with single predictor variables yielded the best performance with S-t as an input, confirming that the largest contributions for forecasting solar energy is derived from the sunshine hours per day compared to the other prescribed inputs. All six inputs were required in the optimum W-SVM for Brisbane and Cairns stations to yield r = 0.928, d = 0.927, E-Ns = 0.858, P-dv = 1.757%, MAE = 1.819 MJ m(-2) and r = 0.881, d = 0.870, E-Ns = 0.762, P-dv = 9.633%, MAE = 2.086 MJ m(-2), respectively. However, for Townsville, the time-series of S-t, T-min, and T-max and E were required in the optimum model to yield r = 0.858, d = 0.886, E-Ns = 0.722, P-dv = 10.282% and MAE = 2.167 MJ m(-2). In terms of the relative model errors over daily forecast horizon, W-SVM model was the most accurate precise for Townsville (RRMSE = 12.568%; MAPE = 12.666%) followed by Brisbane (13.313%; 13.872%) and Cairns (14.467%; 15.675%) weather stations. A set of alternative models developed over the monthly, seasonal and annual forecast horizons verified the long-term forecasting skill, where lagged inputs of T-max, T-min, E, P and VP for Roma Post Office and Toowoomba Regional stations were employed. The wavelet-coupled model performed well, with r = 0.965, d = 0.964, P-dv = 2.249%, RRMSE = 5.942% and MAPE = 4.696% (Roma) and r = 0.958, d = 0.943, P-dv = 0.979%, RRMSE = 7.66% and MAPE = 6.20% (Toowoomba). Accordingly, the results conclusively ascertained the importance of wavelet-coupled SVM predictive model as a qualified stratagem for short and long-term forecasting of solar energy for assessment of solar energy prospectivity in this study region. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Raman spectroscopy has been rarely applied in soil characterization due to the interference of fluorescence resulting from soil organic matter (SOM). However, valuable structural information is likely stored in the soil Raman spectra. This study was undertaken to investigate the potential of Raman spectroscopy in soil identification as an alternative tool to traditional methods, and the partial least squares (PLS) model was developed from Raman spectra to make a quantitative prediction of SOM. Diverse soil samples (n = 200) representing four typical farmlands in China were scanned with a portable Raman spectrometer (i-Raman (R) Plus, USA) from the spectra range of 180 to 3200 cm(-1). The Raman shift range of 1000-2000 cm(-1) was selected to establish an identification model. Probabilistic neural network (PNN) combined with principal component analysis (PCA) of the spectra data was employed to identify 200 soils and an acceptable result was obtained with an accuracy of 96% in validation. The PLS model with cross-validation was constructed to predict the content of SOM, and the best prediction model was calculated using spectra with the linear exclusion in selected range (RPDv = 1.92, R-v(2) = 0.74, and RMSEP = 8.16 g kg(-1)). This study illustrates that soil Raman spectra contain information of soil constituents even in the presence of fluorescence interference; moreover, it demonstrates that this contained information can play a vital role in the characterization of symmetric structures of SOM, which can provide complementary knowledge to understand molecular structure of SOM that infrared spectroscopy cannot offer. (C) 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Deep neural networks (DNNs) have now demonstrated state-of-the-art detection performance on pedestrian datasets. However, because of their high computational complexity, detection efficiency is still a frustrating problem even with the help of Graphics Processing Units (GPUs). To improve detection efficiency, this paper proposes to share features across a group of DNNs that correspond to pedestrian models of different sizes. By sharing features, the computational burden for extracting features from an image pyramid can be significantly reduced. Simultaneously, we can detect pedestrians of several different scales on one single layer of an image pyramid. Furthermore, the improvement of detection efficiency is achieved with negligible loss of detection accuracy. Experimental results demonstrate the robustness and efficiency of the proposed algorithm. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
In this paper, we propose an undirected model of learning systems, named max-min-degree neural network, to realize centralized-decentralized collaborative computing. The basic idea of the proposal is a max-min-degree constraint which extends a k-degree constraint to improve the communication cost, where k is a user-defined degree of neurons. The max-min-degree constraint is defined such that the degree of each neuron lies between k(min) and k(max). Accordingly, the Boltzmann machine is a special case of the proposal with k(min) = k(max) = n, where n is the full-connected degree of neurons. Evaluations show that the proposal is much better than a state-of-the-art model of deep learning systems with respect to the communication cost. The cost of the above improvement is slower convergent speed with respect to data size, but it does not matter in the case of big data processing.
This paper proposes a novel wavelet neural network algorithm for the continuous and noninvasive dynamic estimation of blood pressure (BP). Unlike prior algorithms, the proposed algorithm capitalizes on the correlation between photoplethysmography (PPG) and BP. Complete BP waveforms are reconstructed based on PPG signals to extract systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP). To improve the robustness, Daubechies wavelet is implemented as the hidden layer node function for the neural network. An optimized neural network structure is proposed to reduce the computational complexity. Further, this paper investigates an inhomogeneous resilient backpropagation (IRBP) algorithm to calculate the weight of hidden layer nodes. The IRBP improves the convergence speed and reconstruction accuracy. Multiparameter intelligent monitoring in Intensive Care (MIMIC) databases, which contain a variety of physiological parameters captured from patient monitors, are used to validate this algorithm. The standard deviation sigma between reconstructed and actual BP signals is 4.4797 mmHg, which satisfies the American National Standards of the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation. The reconstructed BP waveform can be used to extract the SBP and DBP, whose standard deviations a are 2.91 mmHg and 2.41 mmHg respectively.
Wheeled mobile robots (WMRs) are often used for maintenance of round pipes or ducts, which can typically be represented as a cylindrical workspace. Working in round pipes or ducts, kinematic models of WMRs are different from those applying on a plane and thus pose significant challenges in terms of kinematic analysis and motion control. To address these challenges, the kinematic properties of WMRs in a cylindrical workspace are analyzed in this paper. First, we discuss the kinematic properties of a single wheel in a cylindrical workspace. Then, we analyze the geometric constraints of WMRs in round pipes or ducts with analytical geometry. Based on these analyses, kinematic properties of WMRs in cylindrical workspaces are discussed with screw theory. A control law based on biaxial clinometer information is proposed, and it enables the robot to move horizontally in round pipes or ducts. Finally, the motion of a single wheel purely rolling in a cylindrical workspace is simulated. Experiments using a car-like mobile robot moving in round ducts are carried out to show the feasibility of the proposed algorithm.
Bio-inspired robotic fish hold strong promise for underwater missions. This paper deals with the design and control issues of a miniature free-swimming robotic fish with multiple sensors. Specifically, a synthesized mechanical design scheme mainly relying on a two-link serial mechanism and a pair of mechanical pectoral fins is first presented. Next, a bio-inspired Central Pattern Generator (CPG) based control method aided by feedback information from multiple sensors of various types to achieve three-dimensional swimming is proposed. Finally, experimental results on the 35-centimetre-long robotic fish verify the efficacy of the proposed mechatronic design and control methods. It is found that the CPG control combined with sensory information greatly contributes to swimming ability and intelligence of the robotic fish.
Antilock braking system (ABS) has been designed to attain maximum negative acceleration and prevent the wheels from locking. Many efforts had been paid to design controller for ABS to improve the brake performance, especially when road condition changes. In this paper, an adaptive fuzzy fractional-order sliding mode controller (AFFOSMC) design method is proposed for ABS. The proposed AFFOSMC combines the fractional-order sliding mode controller (FOSMC) and fuzzy logic controller (FLC). In FOSMC, the sliding surface is PD alpha, which is based on fractional calculus (FC) and is more robust than conventional sliding mode controllers. The FLC is designed to compensate the effects of parameters varying of ABS. The tuning law of the controller is derived based on Lyapunov theory, and the stability of the system can be guaranteed. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of AFFOSMC for ABS under different road conditions.
It is one of critical factors for a massage robot to find and position the acupuncture point precisely in order to cure the diseases. Based on large amount of sample data offline, Chinese medical empirical knowledge is also introduced to build the prediction model. The massagist prescription and the robot mechanism devise are both considered for robot positioning. Least squares method is of simplicity, easy to use and high efficiency. Its real-time calculation is very effective, too. A modeling method for robot positioning is proposed based on least squares. Knowledge consultation is set for the calculation of acupoint position. The robot needs to get the feature points of a foot to be massaged. The foot contour sampling data are divided into piecewise curve fitting. Q-learning is adopted to optimize the robot positioning for they are model free. CMAC (Cerebellar Model Articulation Controller) cerebellum model is incorporated into the function approximation of Q learning. The learning system is rewarded by referring to the strengths of instrumental signal. By the direct representation, the model of human pelma acupoint is expressed with the vector variables and formal computer language. Through prediction model's calculation, the robot will work out the rough position of acupuncture point. Meanwhile, Q learning does the online adjustment for accurate location. These strategies provide for the robot to automatically search and position the pelma acupoint with little real-time computation and storage. The idea of this paper also prompts a research cue for the development of Chinese medical standardization.
The objective of this paper is to propose a hierarchical topic evolution model (HTEM) that can organize time-varying topics in a hierarchy and discover their evolutions with multiple timescales. In the proposed HTEM, topics near the root of the hierarchy are more abstract and also evolve in the longer timescales than those near the leaves. To achieve this goal, the distance-dependent Chinese restaurant process (ddCRP) is extended to a new nested process that is able to simultaneously model the dependencies among data and the relationship between clusters. The HTEM is proposed based on the new process for time-stamped documents, in which the timestamp is utilized to measure the dependencies among documents. Moreover, an efficient Gibbs sampler is developed for the proposed HTEM. Our experimental results on two popular real-world data sets verify that the proposed HTEM can capture coherent topics and discover their hierarchical evolutions. It also outperforms the baseline model in terms of likelihood on held-out data.
Transportation of biological cells has attracted increased attention in bioscience and nanomedicine. Existing approaches to achieve automated multicell transportation are generally based on numerous overstrict conditions or assumptions, including static and clean environments, complex theoretical convergence conditions, omitting tool kinematics, and off-line calibrations. This paper presents a novel approach for the automated transportation of multiple cells by using robotically controlled holographic optical tweezers. First, a swarming controller is developed with easily satisfied convergence conditions. The offset between centers of the cell and optical tweezers is constrained by saturation control to maintain the cells in the optically trapping area. An artificial first-order kinematic model of the tweezers is considered in the controller design to reduce controller oscillation. Second, a solution to the collision avoidance of random-moving obstacles is developed to remove the assumption of static or clean environments. Finally, an automated method based on the drag force model and gradient descent optimization is presented to calibrate cell dynamics online. Experiments on yeast cells are performed to verify the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
The problem of the reconstruction of the parameters characterizing the plasma shape in a tokamak device is of paramount importance both for present day experiments and for future reactor. The plasma shape can only be evaluated by diagnostic data, such as poloidal flux and magnetic field measured respectively by the flux loops and magnetic probes located on the vacuum vessel outside the plasma. The aim of the present paper is to take a step forward in the application of the neural network approach for the identification of non-circular plasma equilibrium and data analysis for the problem of the optimal location of a limited number of magnetic sensors. We have adopted a machine learning method, back-propagation neural network, to analyze the magnetic diagnostic data. The database has been generated by means of a specially adapted version of an MHD equilibrium code EFIT with reference to the EAST geometry and stored in the EAST mdsplus database. The network uses external magnetic measurements as input data and the selected plasma parameters as output data to train and test. Then a novel strategy is implemented for the selection of the optimum location of a limited number of magnetic probes based data analysis of the network. The average accuracy of the identification procedure is quite good (e.g., the maximum relative error is 0.260 % of internal inductance), with a contrast of the computation results of EFIT as desired output. It has been shown that the degradation of the performance is rather small (e.g., RMS error of minor radius vary from 4.307 to 4.765 %) when the number of magnetic probes is reduced by nearly half.
Long-term hourly observations of photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), global solar radiation (E-g) and meteorological variables [air temperature (T-A), relative humidity (R-H), dew point (T-D), water vapor pressure (V-W), air pressure (P-A)] observed at different types of ecosystems (agricultural farmland, wetland, forest, bay, grassland, desert and lake) in China are reported for developing and validating PAR estimating models. Three improved Artificial Neural Network (ANN) methods, Multilayer Perceptron (MLP), Generalized Regression Neural Network (GRNN), and Radial Basis Neural Network (RBNN) are proposed in this study for predicting the hourly PAR using the combinations of above meteorological variables as model inputs. The ANN models have been compared with an efficient all-sky PAR model (ALSKY) through statistical indicies root mean square errors (RMSE) and mean absolute errors (MAE) at each station. The effects of meteorological variables on the hourly PAR predictions are further analyzed for investigating the main influencing factors for each model. The results indicate that there are large differences in model accuracy for each model at each ecosystem, for example, the MLP and RBNN models whose inputs are the E-g and T-A (RMSE, MAE and R-2 are 7.12, 5.24 and 98.90, respectively) perform better than the GRNN and ALSYK models at the agricultural farmland AKA station, while the GRNN model (RMSE and MAE are 12.47 and 8.98, respectively) performs better than other methods at DHL station. The model inputs also play different roles in different ecosystems for each ANN model, for example, T-A and P-A generally have more effects than the R-H, T-D and V-W variables in the farmland stations, while RH is more important for hourly PAR prediction than the other variables in the bay stations. Finally, the overall rank of the model accuracy is obtained, MLP and RBNN models are more accurate for estimating hourly PAR at various ecosystems in China. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The Geostationary Ocean Color Imager (GOCI) can produce good ocean colour products in the open sea. However, an atmospheric correction problem continues to occur for turbid coastal water environment monitoring. In this communication, a regional atmospheric correction method based on an artificial neural network (ANN) model has been proposed. The ANN model was built according to differences in the spatial and radiometric characteristics between the Medium Resolution Imaging Spectrometer (MERIS) and GOCI, with 3000 pixels of the top-of-atmosphere (TOA) reflectance of seven GOCI images from 2011 to 2012 above turbid water used as the inputs and coinciding validated remote-sensing reflectance (Rrs) of MERIS used as the outputs. Subsequently, the water-leaving reflectance of GOCI in turbid coastal water areas of the Bohai Sea was derived. Compared with the products produced by the standard GOCI Data Processing System (GDPS Version 1.3), the Rrs retrieved according to the proposed method showed a significant improvement in spatial pattern. Although the ANN model displayed a degree of difficulty in representing high water-leaving reflectance values, a comparison with three in situ measurements collected on 11 November 2011 in the study area showed encouraging results. The results suggest that the ANN method can be used for atmospheric correction process in turbid waters without requiring numerous in situ measurements.
This study considers the distributed fault-tolerant consensus problem for uncertain multi-agent systems using adaptive protocol. A more general time-varying actuator fault model is given, which includes loss of effectiveness, stuck, bias and outage fault. A new distributed adaptive control scheme is developed to compensate the effect of fault, multiple delayed state perturbations, mismatched parameter uncertainties and external disturbances on leader-follower multi-agent systems. Based on the local state information of neighbouring agents, the adaptive updating protocol gains are adjusted online, which remove the assumption that the upper bounds of unknown uncertainty, delayed state perturbation and external disturbances should be known. Moreover, the consensus errors of leader-follower systems can asymptotically converge to zero. Finally, a simulation example is given to show the effectiveness of the theoretical analysis.
Soil organic matter content (SOMC) is an important factor that reflects soil fertility, land production capacity, and the degree of soil degradation. The objectives of this study were to (i) test various regression models for estimating SOMC based on published spectral parameters in the Sanjiang Plain, (ii) develop optimal band difference, ratio, and normalized difference algorithms for assessing SOMC using spectral data, and (iii) compare the performance of the proposed models using grey relational analysis-artificial neural networks (GRA-ANN) and the band difference algorithm. The SOMC data and concurrent spectral parameters were acquired in the Sanjiang Plain of Northest China in 2006. For the GRA-ANN model, GRA was used to select the sensitive spectral parameters and ANN was established to estimate SOMC. The results showed that reflectance (R) gradually decreased with increasing SOMC and the regression equations based on the spectral parameter 1/R-588, Diff (1/R-535), R-610, R-554, R-550, and R-520 could be used to estimate SOMC, respectively. The SOMC model based on the optimal difference index (ODI; R-2= 0.63 and RMSE= 1.43%) outperformed those based on the optimal ratio vegetation index (ORVI; R-2=0.48 and RMSE = 1.82%) and normalized difference vegetation index (ONDVI, R-2 = 0.57 and RMSE= 1.56%). The GRA-ANN model presented better SOMC estimation results (R-2 = 0.90 and RMSE = 0.88%). Thus, the GRA-ANN model has great potential for SOMC estimations; however, the ODI also has merit, especially when taking into consideration the simplicity of its application. Combining different algorithms may improve SOMC estimations on a regional scale. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The efficiency-oriented performance evaluation of multi-period and multi-division systems (MPMDS) becomes increasingly important for complex investment and management decisions. This paper proposes a new formulation approach for dynamic network DEA (DN-DEA) models based on system thinking to measure and decompose the overall efficiency of MPMDS. The proposed approach is general and maintains the objective property of DEA evaluation, which not only does not need the pre-specified weights to subjectively combine component efficiencies into overall efficiency, but also is applicable to both radial and non-radial measures. More attracting, it presents a weighted average decomposition of the overall efficiency score into component ones by a set of endogenous weight sets which are most favorable for the overall efficiency of the tested entire MPMDS and ensures consistency in the comparison between overall and component efficiency scores. This study makes two contributions to the existing literature. First, it not only makes the structured decision making of MPMDS possible but also helps us realize semi- and non-structural decision making from an expert and intelligent systems point of view. Second, it evaluated the innovation efficiency of OECD countries in the multi-period and multi-division context, which presents an analytical technique and some systemic evidence for national innovation investment decisions in the long run. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper is concerned with the distributed control problem of second-order agents under directed network topology. The control input of each agent only depends on its own state and the states of its neighbors corrupted by white noises. By using the algebraic graph theory and stochastic analysis method, necessary and sufficient conditions are presented for mean square bounded tracking. Finally, several simulation examples are given to illustrate the results. Copyright (C) 2015 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
We present a deep learning strategy to fuse multiple semantic cues for complex event recognition. In particular, we tackle the recognition task by answering how to jointly analyze human actions (who is doing what), objects (what), and scenes (where). First, each type of semantic features (e.g., human action trajectories) is fed into a corresponding multi-layer feature abstraction pathway, followed by a fusion layer connecting all the different pathways. Second, the correlations of how the semantic cues interacting with each other are learned in an unsupervised cross-modality autoencoder fashion. Finally, by fine-tuning a large-margin objective deployed on this deep architecture, we are able to answer the question on how the semantic cues of who, what, and where compose a complex event. As compared with the traditional feature fusion methods (e.g., various early or late strategies), our method jointly learns the essential higher level features that are most effective for fusion and recognition. We perform extensive experiments on two real-world complex event video benchmarks, MED'11 and CCV, and demonstrate that our method outperforms the best published results by 21% and 11%, respectively, on an event recognition task.
In this article, we present COMSAT, a hybrid framework for residue contact prediction of transmembrane (TM) proteins, integrating a support vector machine (SVM) method and a mixed integer linear programming (MILP) method. COMSAT consists of two modules: COMSAT_SVM which is trained mainly on position-specific scoring matrix features, and COMSAT_MILP which is an ab initio method based on optimization models. Contacts predicted by the SVM model are ranked by SVM confidence scores, and a threshold is trained to improve the reliability of the predicted contacts. For TM proteins with no contacts above the threshold, COMSAT_MILP is used. The proposed hybrid contact prediction scheme was tested on two independent TM protein sets based on the contact definition of 14 angstrom between C alpha-C alpha atoms. First, using a rigorous leave-one-protein-out cross validation on the training set of 90 TM proteins, an accuracy of 66.8%, a coverage of 12.3%, a specificity of 99.3% and a Matthews' correlation coefficient (MCC) of 0.184 were obtained for residue pairs that are at least six amino acids apart. Second, when tested on a test set of 87 TM proteins, the proposed method showed a prediction accuracy of 64.5%, a coverage of 5.3%, a specificity of 99.4% and a MCC of 0.106. COMSAT shows satisfactory results when compared with 12 other state-of-the-art predictors, and is more robust in terms of prediction accuracy as the length and complexity of TM protein increase.
In this paper, the authors make the first attempt to employ the deep learning method for the representation learning of the solar radio spectrums. The original solar radio spectrums are pre-processed, including normalization, enhancement and etc., to generate new images for the next processing. With the expertise of solar radio astronomy for identifying solar radio activity, we build a solar radio activity database, which contains solar radio spectrums as well as their labels indicating the types of solar radio bursts. The employed deep learning network is firstly pre-trained based on the available massive of unlabeled radio solar images. Afterwards, the weights of the network are further fined-tuned based on the labeled data. Experimental results have demonstrated that the employed network can effectively classify the solar radio image into the labeled categories. Moreover, the pre-training process can help improve the classification accuracy.
Visual object tracking is a challenging task because designing an effective and efficient appearance model is difficult. Current online tracking algorithms treat tracking as a classification task and use labelled samples to update appearance model. However, it is not clear to evaluate instance confidence belongs to the object. In this study, the authors propose a simple and efficient tracking algorithm with a deformable structure appearance. In their method, model updates with continuous labelled samples which are dense sampling. To improve the accuracy, they introduce a coupled-layer regression model which prevents negative background from impacting on the model learning rather than traditional classification. The proposed deformable structure regression tracker runs in real time and performs favourably against state-of-the-art trackers on various challenging sequences.
We present a new roadmap based on a generalized Voronoi graph for two-identical-link mobile robots to explore an unknown planar environment. It is called the L-2-generalized Voronoi graph and is defined in terms of workspace distance measurements using only sensor-provided information, with the robot having the maximum distance from obstacles, and is therefore optimum in a point of view for exploration and obstacle avoidance. The configuration of the robot possesses four degrees of freedom, and hence the roadmap is one-dimensional in an unknown configuration space 2xT2. The L-2-generalized Voronoi graph is not always connected, and so is connected with an additional structure called the (LR)-R-2-edge, where the robot is tangent to a GVD structure with the same orientation for the two links. This roadmap is termed L-2 hierarchical generalized Voronoi graph. The L-2 hierarchical generalized Voronoi graph includes two structures: the L-2 hierarchical generalized Voronoi graph and the (LR)-R-2 edge. Although the condition of two identical links looks somewhat constraining, the L-2 hierarchical generalized Voronoi graph is still worth pursuing because the case is very common in the engineering environment.
This paper presents a high-precision intelligent flexible robot grasping front-end with an integrated capacitive tactile sensor array and a conditioning chip. The capacitive tactile sensor is the primary part of the front-end, it determines the overall performance. The micro-needle array sandwich structure in the tactile sensor increases the repeatability and stability, and ensures the sensitivity. The assembled sensor exhibits a saturation at 10.53 N (421 kPa) with a sensitivity of 1.9%/kPa. Furthermore, a conditioning chip is utilized in a custom readout interface to achieve better performance by reducing signal attenuation, and to increase the compatibility of the front-end. The chip is optimized for the parasitic shunt capacitance in the capacitor array. A dual bidirectional charge-discharge conversion method and a two-port detection method are matched to achieve the goal of reducing the shunting influence, and attenuating the offset voltage or the noise input effects. A prototype of the interface has been fabricated using 180-nm CMOS technology. Sensor with the value of 0.5 pF shunted by capacitors of 47 pF has been detected with an error of 1% within 100 mu s.
This paper deals with the leader-following consensus problem for a class of multi-agent systems with nonlinear dynamics and directed communication topology. The control input of the leader agent is assumed to be unknown to all follower agents. A distributed adaptive nonlinear control law is constructed using the relative state information between neighboring agents, which achieves leader-following consensus for any directed communication graph that contains a spanning tree with the root node being the leader agent. Compared with previous results, the nonlinear functions are not required to satisfy the globally Lipschitz or Lipschitz-like condition and the adaptive consensus protocol is in a distributed fashion. A numerical example is given to verify our proposed protocol. (C) 2016 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Chinese character font recognition (CCFR) has received increasing attention as the intelligent applications based on optical character recognition becomes popular. However, traditional CCFR systems do not handle noisy data effectively. By analyzing in detail the basic strokes of Chinese characters, we propose that font recognition on a single Chinese character is a sequence classification problem, which can be effectively solved by recurrent neural networks. For robust CCFR, we integrate a principal component convolution layer with the 2-D long short-term memory (2DLSTM) and develop principal component 2DLSTM (PC-2DLSTM) algorithm. PC-2DLSTM considers two aspects: 1) the principal component layer convolution operation helps remove the noise and get a rational and complete font information and 2) simultaneously, 2DLSTM deals with the long-range contextual processing along scan directions that can contribute to capture the contrast between character trajectory and background. Experiments using the frequently used CCFR dataset suggest the effectiveness of PC-2DLSTM compared with other state-of-the-art font recognition methods.
In this paper, a value iteration adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is developed to solve infinite horizon undiscounted optimal control problems for discrete-time nonlinear systems. The present value iteration ADP algorithm permits an arbitrary positive semi-definite function to initialize the algorithm. A novel convergence analysis is developed to guarantee that the iterative value function converges to the optimal performance index function. Initialized by different initial functions, it is proven that the iterative value function will be monotonically nonincreasing, monotonically nondecreasing, or nonmonotonic and will converge to the optimum. In this paper, for the first time, the admissibility properties of the iterative control laws are developed for value iteration algorithms. It is emphasized that new termination criteria are established to guarantee the effectiveness of the iterative control laws. Neural networks are used to approximate the iterative value function and compute the iterative control law, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the iterative ADP algorithm. Finally, two simulation examples are given to illustrate the performance of the present method.
Estimating phosphorus export from the lowland polder areas is a critical step for controlling phosphorus loading of a watershed. However, most existing models assumed lowland polder area to be a freely draining catchment, and did not adequately represent its phosphorus dynamics. To better estimate the phosphorus sink and source of the polder systems, a process-based Phosphorus Dynamic model for lowland Polder systems (PDP) consisting of six modules was developed to simulate the daily phosphorus exchanges between lowland polder systems and their surrounding rivers. The unique pattern of water and phosphorus dynamics in polder systems (i.e., manual operation of water exchange between the polder and its surrounding rivers and the phosphorus dynamics in the water area) was accounted for in PDP. Based on a dataset collected from Polder Jian located in Lake Taihu Basin, China during 2014, seven sensitive parameters in PDP were identified based on sensitivity analysis, and were optimized using Genetic Algorithm. A k-fold cross-validation method was used to assess model goodness-of-fit, and resulted in an acceptable model with an r(2) (coefficient of determination) value of 0.594. The case study in Polder Jian showed the reliability of PDP to estimate the phosphorus source and sink from polder systems. Such estimation is helpful for water managers to identify the phosphorus source, and thus take corresponding measures to control the aquatic eutrophication. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The nonbacktracking operator for a graph is the adjacency matrix defined on directed edges of the graph. The operator was recently shown to perform optimally in spectral clustering in sparse synthetic graphs and have a deep connection to belief propagation algorithm. In this paper we consider nonbacktracking operator for Ising model on a general graph with a general coupling distribution and study the spectrum of this operator analytically. We show that spectral algorithms based on this operator is equivalent to belief propagation algorithm linearized at the paramagnetic fixed point and recovers replica-symmetry results on phase boundaries obtained by replica methods. This operator can be applied directly to systems with multiple states like Hopfield model. We show that spectrum of the operator can be used to determine number of patterns that stored successfully in the network, and the associated eigenvectors can be used to retrieve all the patterns simultaneously. We also give an example on how to control the Hopfield model, i.e., making network more sparse while keeping patterns stable, using the nonbacktracking operator and matrix perturbation theory.
It is very difficult to detect oil spills when the scattering intensity of background clutter is inhomogeneous in synthetic aperture radar (SAR) images. To improve the oil detection capability, we propose a modified constant false alarm rate (CFAR)-based method for the detection of oil spills in SAR images. This proposed method combines edge detection technique and CFAR detection theory to improve the accuracy of oil spills detection. First, we segment the image into the areas of interest (AOIs) by using ratio edge detection. Second, to get a more accurate detection result, an improved Weibull-CFAR detector is applied to these AOIs. Experimental results demonstrate that the modified CFAR algorithm can work more effectively than a global CFAR detector for oil spill detection, especially for the inhomogeneous intensity SAR images. This model can detect the target more effectively, and false alarms can be greatly diminished.
An approach to sea ice classification using dual polarization RADARSAT-2 ScanSAR data is presented in this paper. It is based on support vector machine (SVM). In addition to backscatter coefficients and gray-level cooccurrence matrix (GLCM) texture features, sea ice concentration was introduced as a classification basis. To better analyze the backscatter information of sea ice types, we considered two steps that could improve the ScanSAR image quality, the noise floor stripe reduction and the incidence angle normalization. Then, effective GLCM texture characteristics from both polarizations were selected using the proper parameters. The third type of information, sea ice concentration, was extracted from the initial SVM classification result after the optimal SVM model was achieved from the training. The final result was generated by implementing the SVM twice and the decision tree once. Using this method, the classification was improved in two aspects, both of which were related to sea ice concentration. The results showed that the sea ice concentration parameter was effective in dealing with open water and in discriminating pancake ice from old ice. Finally, the maximum likelihood (ML) was run as a comparative test. In conclusion, the sea ice concentration parameter could play a role in SVM classification, and the whole process provided an effective way to classify sea ice using dual polarization ScanSAR data.
The Chinese Small Telescope ARray (CSTAR) has observed an area around the Celestial South Pole at Dome A since 2008. About 20,000 light curves in the i band were obtained during the observation season lasting from 2008 March to July. The photometric precision achieves about 4 mmag at i = 7.5 and 20 mmag at i = 12 within a 30 s exposure time. These light curves are analyzed using Lomb-Scargle, Phase Dispersion Minimization, and Box Least Squares methods to search for periodic signals. False positives may appear as a variable signature caused by contaminating stars and the observation mode of CSTAR. Therefore, the period and position of each variable candidate are checked to eliminate false positives. Eclipsing binaries are removed by visual inspection, frequency spectrum analysis, and a locally linear embedding technique. We identify 53 eclipsing binaries in the field of view of CSTAR, containing 24 detached binaries, 8 semi-detached binaries, 18 contact binaries, and 3 ellipsoidal variables. To derive the parameters of these binaries, we use the Eclipsing Binaries via Artificial Intelligence method. The primary and secondary eclipse timing variations (ETVs) for semi-detached and contact systems are analyzed. Correlated primary and secondary ETVs confirmed by false alarm tests may indicate an unseen perturbing companion. Through ETV analysis, we identify two triple systems (CSTAR J084612.64-883342.9 and CSTAR J220502.55-895206.7). The orbital parameters of the third body in CSTAR J220502.55-895206.7 are derived using a simple dynamical model.
We construct a microscopic hyperspectral imaging system to distinguish between normal and cancerous gastric cells. We study common transmission-spectra features that only emerge when the samples are dyed with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stain. Subsequently, we classify the obtained visible-range transmission spectra of the samples into three zones. Distinct features are observed in the spectral responses between the normal and cancerous cell nuclei in each zone, which depend on the pH level of the cell nucleus. Cancerous gastric cells are precisely identified according to these features. The average cancer-cell identification accuracy obtained with a backpropagation algorithm program trained with these features is 95%. (C) 2015 Optical Society of America
Accurate and timely traffic flow information is important for the successful deployment of intelligent transportation systems. Over the last few years, traffic data have been exploding, and we have truly entered the era of big data for transportation. Existing traffic flow prediction methods mainly use shallow traffic prediction models and are still unsatisfying for many real-world applications. This situation inspires us to rethink the traffic flow prediction problem based on deep architecture models with big traffic data. In this paper, a novel deep-learning-based traffic flow prediction method is proposed, which considers the spatial and temporal correlations inherently. A stacked autoencoder model is used to learn generic traffic flow features, and it is trained in a greedy layerwise fashion. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that a deep architecture model is applied using autoencoders as building blocks to represent traffic flow features for prediction. Moreover, experiments demonstrate that the proposed method for traffic flow prediction has superior performance.
The dorsal striatum integrates inputs from multiple brain areas to coordinate voluntary movements, associative plasticity, and reinforcement learning. Its projection neurons consist of the GABAergic medium spiny neurons (MSNs) that express dopamine receptor type 1 (D1) or dopamine receptor type 2 (D2). Cholinergic interneurons account for a small portion of striatal neuron populations, but they play important roles in striatal functions by synapsing onto the MSNs and other local interneurons. By combining the modified rabies virus with specific Cre-mouse lines, a recent study mapped the monosynaptic input patterns to MSNs. Because only a small number of extrastriatal neurons were labeled in the prior study, it is important to reexamine the input patterns of MSNs with higher labeling efficiency. Additionally, the whole-brain innervation pattern of cholinergic interneurons remains unknown. Using the rabies virus-based transsynaptic tracing method in this study, we comprehensively charted the brain areas that provide direct inputs to D1-MSNs, D2-MSNs, and cholinergic interneurons in the dorsal striatum. We found that both types of projection neurons and the cholinergic interneurons receive extensive inputs from discrete brain areas in the cortex, thalamus, amygdala, and other subcortical areas, several of which were not reported in the previous study. The MSNs and cholinergic interneurons share largely common inputs from areas outside the striatum. However, innervations within the dorsal striatum represent a significantly larger proportion of total inputs for cholinergic interneurons than for the MSNs. The comprehensive maps of direct inputs to striatal MSNs and cholinergic interneurons shall assist future functional dissection of the striatal circuits.
In industrial process control, there may be multiple performance objectives, depending on salient features of the input-output data. Aiming at this situation, this paper proposes multiple actor-critic structures to obtain the optimal control via input-output data for unknown nonlinear systems. The shunting inhibitory artificial neural network (SIANN) is used to classify the input-output data into one of several categories. Different performance measure functions may be defined for disparate categories. The approximate dynamic programming algorithm, which contains model module, critic network, and action network, is used to establish the optimal control in each category. A recurrent neural network (RNN) model is used to reconstruct the unknown system dynamics using input-output data. NNs are used to approximate the critic and action networks, respectively. It is proven that the model error and the closed unknown system are uniformly ultimately bounded. Simulation results demonstrate the performance of the proposed optimal control scheme for the unknown nonlinear system.
In this paper, a novel iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP)-based infinite horizon self-learning optimal control algorithm, called generalized policy iteration algorithm, is developed for nonaffine discrete-time (DT) nonlinear systems. Generalized policy iteration algorithm is a general idea of interacting policy and value iteration algorithms of ADP. The developed generalized policy iteration algorithm permits an arbitrary positive semidefinite function to initialize the algorithm, where two iteration indices are used for policy improvement and policy evaluation, respectively. It is the first time that the convergence, admissibility, and optimality properties of the generalized policy iteration algorithm for DT nonlinear systems are analyzed. Neural networks are used to implement the developed algorithm. Finally, numerical examples are presented to illustrate the performance of the developed algorithm.
In this paper, a novel iterative Q-learning method called "dual iterative Q-learning algorithm" is developed to solve the optimal battery management and control problem in smart residential environments. In the developed algorithm, two iterations are introduced, which are internal and external iterations, where internal iteration minimizes the total cost of power loads in each period, and the external iteration makes the iterative Q-function converge to the optimum. Based on the dual iterative Q-learning algorithm, the convergence property of the iterative Q-learning method for the optimal battery management and control problem is proven for the first time, which guarantees that both the iterative Q-function and the iterative control law reach the optimum. Implementing the algorithm by neural networks, numerical results and comparisons are given to illustrate the performance of the developed algorithm.
Pedotransfer functions (PTFs) have gained wide development in recent years as approaches to establishing the relationship between easily measurable or readily available soil characteristics found in soil surveys and more complicated model input parameters. However, PTFs developed from databases with limited types of soil conditions might not be directly applicable to other soils whose conditions are different from those used to establish PTFs. Our primary objectives were to determine the influencing factors of saturated hydraulic conductivity (K-s) in the coastal salt-affected farming area, to identify the most appropriate one from the widely used PTFs, and to develop new PTFs with higher accuracy and suitability according to the influencing factors of K-s in our experimental sites.
This paper addresses attitude synchronization problems for systems of multiple rigid-body agents with directed interconnection topologies. Two scenarios which differ in available information are considered. In the first scenario the agents can obtain their rotations and angular velocities relative to an inertial reference frame and transmit these information to their neighbors, while in the second scenario the agents can only obtain their own angular velocities and measure the relative rotations and relative angular velocities of their neighbors. By using rotation vectors and the high gain control, the authors provide torque control laws asymptotically synchronizing the rotations of the system almost globally for the first scenario and with initial rotations of the agents contained in a convex ball of SO(3) for the second scenario. An illustrative example is provided to show the synchronization results for both scenarios.
The similar to 350 km(2) water level fluctuation zone (WLFZ) in the Three Gorges Reservoir (TGR) of China, situated at the intersection of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, experiences a great hydrological change with prolonged winter inundation. Soil samples were collected in 12 sites pre- (September 2008) and post submergence (June 2009) in the WLFZ and analyzed for soil nutrients. Self-organizing map (SOM) and statistical analysis including multi-way ANOVA, paired-T test, and stepwise least squares multiple regression were employed to determine the spatio-temporal variations of soil nutrients in relation to submergence, and their correlations with soil physical characteristics. Results showed significant spatial variability in nutrients along similar to 600 km long shoreline of the TGR before and after submergence. There were higher contents of organic matter, total nitrogen (TN), and nitrate (NO3-) in the lower reach and total phosphorus (TP) in the upper reach that were primarily due to the spatial variations in soil particle size composition and anthropogenic activities. Submergence enhanced soil available potassium (K), while significantly decreased soil N, possibly due to the alterations of soil particle size composition and increase in soil pH. In addition, SOM analysis determined important roles of soil pH value, bulk density, soil particle size (i.e., silt and sand) and nutrients (TP, TK, and AK) on the spatial and temporal variations in soil quality. Our results suggest that urban sewage and agricultural runoffs are primary pollutants that affect soil nutrients in the WLFZ of TGR.
Predicting the levels of chlorophyll-a (Chl-a) is a vital component of water quality management, which ensures that urban drinking water is safe from harmful algal blooms. This study developed a model to predict Chl-a levels in the Yuqiao Reservoir (Tianjin, China) biweekly using water quality and meteorological data from 1999-2012. First, six artificial neural networks (ANNs) and two non-ANN methods (principal component analysis and the support vector regression model) were compared to determine the appropriate training principle. Subsequently, three predictors with different input variables were developed to examine the feasibility of incorporating meteorological factors into Chl-a prediction, which usually only uses water quality data. Finally, a sensitivity analysis was performed to examine how the Chl-a predictor reacts to changes in input variables. The results were as follows: first, ANN is a powerful predictive alternative to the traditional modeling techniques used for Chl-a prediction. The back program (BP) model yields slightly better results than all other ANNs, with the normalized mean square error (NMSE), the correlation coefficient (Corr), and the NashSutcliffe coefficient of efficiency (NSE) at 0.003 mg/l, 0.880 and 0.754, respectively, in the testing period. Second, the incorporation of meteorological data greatly improved Chl-a prediction compared to models solely using water quality factors or meteorological data; the correlation coefficient increased from 0.574-0.686 to 0.880 when meteorological data were included. Finally, the Chl-a predictor is more sensitive to air pressure and pH compared to other water quality and meteorological variables.
Neural networks can generate spatiotemporal patterns of spike activity. Sequential activity learning and retrieval have been observed in many brain areas, and e.g. is crucial for coding of episodic memory in the hippocampus or generating temporal patterns during song production in birds. In a recent study, a sequential activity pattern was directly entrained onto the neural activity of the primary visual cortex (V1) of rats and subsequently successfully recalled by a local and transient trigger. It was observed that the speed of activity propagation in coordinates of the retinotopically organized neural tissue was constant during retrieval regardless how the speed of light stimulation sweeping across the visual field during training was varied. It is well known that spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) is a potential mechanism for embedding temporal sequences into neural network activity. How training and retrieval speeds relate to each other and how network and learning parameters influence retrieval speeds, however, is not well described. We here theoretically analyze sequential activity learning and retrieval in a recurrent neural network with realistic synaptic short-term dynamics and STDP. Testing multiple STDP rules, we confirm that sequence learning can be achieved by STDP. However, we found that a multiplicative nearest-neighbor (NN) weight update rule generated weight distributions and recall activities that best matched the experiments in V1. Using network simulations and mean-field analysis, we further investigated the learning mechanisms and the influence of network parameters on recall speeds. Our analysis suggests that a multiplicative STDP rule with dominant NN spike interaction might be implemented in V1 since recall speed was almost constant in an NMDA-dominant regime. Interestingly, in an AMPA-dominant regime, neural circuits might exhibit recall speeds that instead follow the change in stimulus speeds. This prediction could be tested in experiments.
As an important category of deep models, deep generative model has attracted more and more attention with the proposal of Deep Belief Networks (DBNs) and the fast greedy training algorithm based on restricted Boltzmann machines (RBMs). In the past few years, many different deep generative models are proposed and used in the area of Artificial Intelligence. In this paper, three important deep generative models including DBNs, deep autoencoder, and deep Boltzmann machine are reviewed. In addition, some successful applications of deep generative models in image processing, speech recognition and information retrieval are also introduced and analysed.
The problem of global asymptotical synchronization of chaotic Lur'e systems using sampled-data controller is considered in this paper. The new method is based on a novel construction of piecewise differentiable Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional (LKF) in the framework of an input delay method. Compared with existing works, the new LKF makes full use of the information in the nonlinear part of the system and introduces the novel terms, which guarantees the positive of the whole LKF. The obtained stability condition is less conservative than some of the existing ones. A longer sampling period is achieved with the new method. The numerical examples are given and the simulations are performed on Chua's circuit. The results show the superiorities and effectiveness of the proposed method. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Spin image is a good point feature descriptor of the 3D surface and has been used in model registration for many applications from medical image processing to cooperation of multiple robots. However, researches show that current Spin-Image based Registration (SIR) algorithms present disadvantages in computational efficiency and robustness. Thus in this paper, aiming at 3D model acquired from LiDAR sensor, a new SIR algorithm is proposed to solve these problems. The new algorithm is on the basis of a new-constructed three-dimensional feature space, which, composed of the curvature, the Tsallis entropy of spin image, and the reflection intensity of laser sensor, is combined with the concept of MD-tree to firstly realize the primary key point matching, i.e., to find the Corresponding Point Candidate Set (CPCS). After that, spin-image based corresponding point searching is conducted with respect to each CPCS to precisely obtain the final corresponding points. The most absorbing advantages of the proposed method are as the following two aspects: on one hand, due to the introduction of the extra features, the fault corresponding relation introduced by spin image based method can be effectively reduced and thus the registration precision and robustness can be improved greatly; on the other hand, the CPCS obtained using low-dimensional feature space and MD-tree reduces extraordinarily the computational burden due to spin-image based correspondence searching. This greatly improves the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithm. Finally, in order to verify the feasibility and validity of the proposed algorithm, experiments are conducted and the results are analyzed. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Compressed sensing (CS) provides a general signal acquisition framework that enables the reconstruction of sparse signals from a small number of linear measurements. In this article we present a CS image reconstruction algorithm using intra prediction method based on block-based CS image framework. The current reconstruction block is firstly predicted by its surrounding reconstructed pixels, and then its prediction residual will be reconstructed. Because the sparsity level of prediction residual is higher than its original image block, the performance of our proposed CS image reconstruction algorithm is significantly superior to the traditional CS reconstruction algorithm. Furthermore, total variation model is also used to suppress the blocking artifacts caused by intra prediction and measurement noise. Experimental results also show the competitive performance with respect to peak signal-to-noise ratio and subjective visual quality. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Person re-identification aims at matching individuals across multiple non-overlapping adjacent cameras. By condensing multiple gallery images of a person as a whole, we propose a novel method named Set-Label Model (SLM) to improve the performance of person re-identification under the multi-shot setting. Moreover, we utilize mutual-information to measure the relevance between query image and gallery sets. To decrease the computational complexity, we apply a Naive-Bayes Nearest-Neighbor algorithm to approximate the mutual-information value. To overcome the limitations of traditional linear metric learning, we further develop a deep non-linear metric learning (DeepML) approach based on Neighborhood Component Analysis and Deep Belief Network To evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed approaches, SLM and DeepML, we have carried out extensive experiments on two challenging datasets LIDS and ETHZ. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed methods can obtain better performances compared with the state-of-the-art methods. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Artificial Bee Colony (ABC) algorithm is one of the most recently introduced swarm intelligence algorithms which inspired by the foraging behavior of honey bee swarms. It has been widely used in numerical and engineering optimization problems. This paper presents a hybrid artificial bee colony (HABC) model to improve the canonical ABC algorithm. The main idea of HABC is to enhance the information exchange between bees by introducing the crossover operator of genetic algorithm to ABC. With suitable crossover operation, valuable information is fully utilized and it is expected that the algorithm can converge faster and more accurate. Eight versions of HABC algorithm combined by different selection and crossover methods under the model were proposed and tested on several benchmark functions. Then, the settings of the new parameter crossover rate for two well performed HABC versions are tested to verify their best values. Finally, four rotated functions and four shifted functions are used to test the performance of the two algorithms on complex functions and asymmetric functions. Experiment results showed that these two versions of HABC algorithm offer significant improvement over the original ABC and are superior to other two state of the art algorithms on some functions.
Schizotypy, defined in terms of commonly occurring personality traits related to the schizophrenia spectrum, has been an important construct for understanding the neurodevelopment and stress-diathesis of schizophrenia. However, as schizotypy nears its sixth decade of application, it is important to acknowledge its impressively rich literature accumulating outside of schizophrenia research. In this article, we make the case that schizotypy has considerable potential as a conceptual framework for understanding individual differences in affective and social functions beyond those directly involved in schizophrenia spectrum pathology. This case is predicated on (a) a burgeoning literature noting anomalies in a wide range of social functioning, affiliative, positive and negative emotional, expressive, and social cognitive systems, (b) practical and methodological features associated with schizotypy research that help facilitate empirical investigation, and (c) close ties to theoretical constructs of central importance to affective and social science (eg, stress diathesis, neural compensation). We highlight recent schizotypy research, ie providing insight into the nature of affective and social systems more generally. This includes current efforts to clarify the neurodevelopmental, neurobiological, and psychological underpinnings of affiliative drives, hedonic capacity, social cognition, and stress responsivity systems. Additionally, we discuss neural compensatory and resilience factors that may mitigate the expression of stress-diathesis and functional outcome, and highlight schizotypy's potential role for understanding cultural determinants of social and affective functions.
In this survey, we review different text mining techniques to discover various textual patterns from the social networking sites. Social network applications create opportunities to establish interaction among people leading to mutual learning and sharing of valuable knowledge, such as chat, comments, and discussion boards. Data in social networking websites is inherently unstructured and fuzzy in nature. In everyday life conversations, people do not care about the spellings and accurate grammatical construction of a sentence that may lead to different types of ambiguities, such as lexical, syntactic, and semantic. Therefore, analyzing and extracting information patterns from such data sets are more complex. Several surveys have been conducted to analyze different methods for the information extraction. Most of the surveys emphasized on the application of different text mining techniques for unstructured data sets reside in the form of text documents, but do not specifically target the data sets in social networking website. This survey attempts to provide a thorough understanding of different text mining techniques as well as the application of these techniques in the social networking websites. This survey investigates the recent advancement in the field of text analysis and covers two basic approaches of text mining, such as classification and clustering that are widely used for the exploration of the unstructured text available on the Web.
The utilization of organic devices as pressure-sensing elements in artificial intelligence and healthcare applications represents a fascinating opportunity for the next-generation electronic products. To satisfy the critical requirements of these promising applications, the low-cost construction of large-area ultra-sensitive organic pressure devices with outstanding flexibility is highly desired. Here we present flexible suspended gate organic thin-film transistors (SGOTFTs) as a model platform that enables ultra-sensitive pressure detection. More importantly, the unique device geometry of SGOTFTs allows the fine-tuning of their sensitivity by the suspended gate. An unprecedented sensitivity of 192 kPa(-1), a low limit-of-detection pressure of <0.5 Pa and a short response time of 10 ms were successfully realized, allowing the real-time detection of acoustic waves. These excellent sensing properties of SGOTFTs, together with their advantages of facile large-area fabrication and versatility in detecting various pressure signals, make SGOTFTs a powerful strategy for spatial pressure mapping in practical applications.
This paper studies the generalization performance of radial basis function (RBF) networks using local Rademacher complexities. We propose a general result on controlling local Rademacher complexities with the L-1-metric capacity. We then apply this result to estimate the RBF networks' complexities, based on which a novel estimation error bound is obtained. An effective approximation error bound is also derived by carefully investigating the Holder continuity of the l(p) loss function's derivative. Furthermore, it is demonstrated that the RBF network minimizing an appropriately constructed structural risk admits a significantly better learning rate when compared with the existing results. An empirical study is also performed to justify the application of our structural risk in model selection.
A general utility function representation is proposed to provide the required derivable and adjustable utility function for the dual heuristic dynamic programming (DHP) design. Goal representation DHP (GrDHP) is presented with a goal network being on top of the traditional DHP design. This goal network provides a general mapping between the system states and the derivatives of the utility function. With this proposed architecture, we can obtain the required derivatives of the utility function directly from the goal network. In addition, instead of a fixed predefined utility function in literature, we conduct an online learning process for the goal network so that the derivatives of the utility function can be adaptively tuned over time. We provide the control performance of both the proposed GrDHP and the traditional DHP approaches under the same environment and parameter settings. The statistical simulation results and the snapshot of the system variables are presented to demonstrate the improved learning and controlling performance. We also apply both approaches to a power system example to further demonstrate the control capabilities of the GrDHP approach.
A policy iteration algorithm of adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) is developed to solve the optimal tracking control for a class of discrete-time chaotic systems. By system transformations, the optimal tracking problem is transformed into an optimal regulation one. The policy iteration algorithm for discrete-time chaotic systems is first described. Then, the convergence and admissibility properties of the developed policy iteration algorithm are presented, which show that the transformed chaotic system can be stabilized under an arbitrary iterative control law and the iterative performance index function simultaneously converges to the optimum. By implementing the policy iteration algorithm via neural networks, the developed optimal tracking control scheme for chaotic systems is verified by a simulation.
Investigations of climate-growth interactions can shed light on the response of forest growth to climate change and the dendroclimatic reconstructions. However, most existing studies in the climatically important Tibetan Plateau (TP) and surrouding regions focus on linear growth responses to environmental variation. Herein we investigated both the linear and the nonlinear climate-growth interactions for 152 tree-ring chronologies in the TP and vicinity. Weintroduced the boosted regression tree (BRT) technique to study the nonlinear climate-growth relationships by pooling several sites with similar climate-growth relationships to mitigate potential biases due to the shortness of the instrumental records. Across most of the TP and surroundings, tree growth is stressed by drought. The warming induced drought has been evidenced by the strong interactions between temperature and precipitation in the BRT analyses. The drought stress on forest growth is particularly conspicuous for a hydrological year over much of the Northern TP and surroundings. The BRT analyses indicate the compensation effect of moisture prior to the growing season for the moisture deficit in the early growing season in May to July, when most of the ring-width formation occurs.
Path planning is important in the field of mobile robot. However, traditional path planning techniques optimize the navigation path solely based on the models of the robot and the environments. Owing to the time-varying environment, the robot is expected to launch the replanning procedure in real-time continuously. It is slow and wastes computing resources for repeated decisions. In this study, a new perspective is adopted which utilizes a knowledge-driven approach for path planning. The concept of relative state tree is proposed to develop an incremental learning method based on a path planning knowledge base. The knowledge library, which stores a collection of the mappings from environmental information to robot decisions, can be established by offline or online learnings. As the robot plans online, its movement is guided by the optimal decision that is retrieved from the library based on the information which matches mostly the current environment. A large number of simulations are executed to verify the proposed method. When comparing to k-d tree, this novel method has shown to use smaller storage space and have higher efficiency.
By virtue of their wide applications in personal electronic devices and industrial monitoring, pressure sensors are attractive candidates for promoting the advancement of science and technology in modern society. Flexible pressure sensors based on organic materials, which combine unique advantages of flexibility and low-cost, have emerged as a highly active field due to their promising applications in artificial intelligence systems and wearable health care devices. In this review, we focus on the fundamentals of flexible pressure sensors, and subsequently on several critical concepts for the exploration of functional materials and optimization of sensing devices toward practical applications. Perspectives on self-powered, transparent and implantable pressure sensing devices are also examined to highlight the development directions in this exciting research field.
This brief presents the real-time dynamic Dubins-Helix (RDDH) method for trajectory smoothing, which consists of Dubins-Helix trajectory generation and pitch angle smoothing. The generated 3-D trajectory is called the RDDH trajectory. On one hand, the projection of 3-D trajectory on the horizontal plane is partially generated by Dubins path planner such that the curvature radius constraint is satisfied. On the other hand, the Helix curve is constructed to satisfy the pitch angle constraint, even in the case that the initial and final poses are close. Furthermore, by analyzing the relationship between the parameters and the effectiveness of the RDDH trajectory, the smoothing algorithm is designed to obtain appropriate parameters for a shorter and smoother trajectory. In the end, the numerical results show the proposed method can generate an effective trajectory under diverse initial conditions and achieve real-time computation.
We formalize in a theorem prover the notion of provable anonymity. Our formalization relies on inductive definitions of message distinguishing ability and observational equivalence on traces observed by the intruder. Our theory differs from its original proposal and essentially boils down to the inductive definition of distinguishing messages with respect to a knowledge set for the intruder. We build our theory in Isabelle/HOL to achieve a mechanical framework for the analysis of anonymity protocols. Its feasibility is illustrated through two case studies of the Crowds and Onion Routing protocols.
Simulation of radiation is one of the most important issues in solar utilization. Time series models are useful tools in the estimation and forecasting of solar radiation series and their changes. In this paper, the effectiveness of autoregressive moving average (ARMA) models with various generalized autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity (GARCH) processes, namely ARMA-GARCH models are evaluated for their effectiveness in radiation series. Six different GARCH approaches, which contain three different ARMA-GARCH models and corresponded GARCH in mean (ARMA-GARCH-M) models, are applied in radiation data sets from two representative climate stations in China. Multiple evaluation metrics of modeling sufficiency are used for evaluating the performances of models. The results show that the ARMA-GARCH models are effective in radiation series estimation. Both in fitting and prediction of radiation series, the ARMA-GARCH(-M) models show better modeling sufficiency than traditional models, while ARMA-EGARCH-M models are robustness in two sites and the ARMA-sGARCH-M models appear very competitive. Comparisons of statistical diagnostics and model performance clearly show that the ARMA-GARCH-M models make the mean radiation equations become more sufficient. It is recommended the ARMA-GARCH(-M) models to be the preferred method to use in the modeling of solar radiation series. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A novel error-aware visual localization method is proposed that utilizes vertical planes, such as vertical building facades in urban areas as landmarks. Vertical planes, reconstructed from coplanar vertical lines, are robust high-level features if compared with point features or line features. Firstly, the error models of vertical lines and vertical planes are built, where maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) is employed to estimate all vertical planes from coplanar vertical lines. Then, the closed-form representation of camera location error variance is derived. Finally, the minimum variance camera pose estimation is formulated into a convex optimization problem, and the weight for each vertical plane is obtained by solving this well-studied problem. Experiments are carried out and the results show that the proposed localization method has an accuracy of about 2 meters, at par with commercial GPS operating in open environments.
Soil-landscape models serve as a basis for understanding the relationships between soils and landscape, and such models also allow us to study soil distribution, and classification. To understand the distribution of soils and land-form relationships in permafrost regions, we developed a soil-landscape model by using See5.0 decision tree software in the Wenquan region of Xinghai County, in the eastern part of permafrost regions of Qinghai-Xizang (Tibetan) Plateau (QTP). The model was based on soil pedon data from 2009. Nine environmental factors closely related to permafrost-affected-soil formation were selected as variables for the model: land surface temperature for warm season and cool season, elevation, slope gradient, slope aspect, planform and profile curvatures, wetness index and NDVI. A 5-fold cross-validation method was applied to verify the effectiveness of the soill-andscape model. The model results were consistent with field observations, and the slope was the most strongly correlated factor with soil type of the nine environmental variables. The soils in the modeled area are mainly Ustic Cambosols and Ustic Isohumisols, which cover about 60.0% and 25.6% of the total area, respectively. Gelic cambosols occur mainly in permafrost region, while Ustic isohumosols occur in the transition region between permafrost and seasonally frozen ground. Further studies are required to utilize the soil-landscape model to predict the spatial distribution of soil types over the QTP. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A conventional adaptive optics (AO) system is widely used to compensate atmospheric turbulence in free space optical (FSO) communication systems, but wavefront measurements based on phase-conjugation principle are not desired under strong scintillation circumstances. In this study we propose a novel swarm intelligence optimization algorithm, which is called modified shuffled frog leaping algorithm (MSFL), to compensate the wavefront aberration. Simulation and experiments results show that MSFL algorithm performs well in the atmospheric compensation and it can increase the coupling efficiency in receiver terminal and significantly improve the performance of the FSO communication systems. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The potential energy surfaces for the H + H-2 exchange reaction are determined, using the standard Becke-3_parameter-Lee-Yang-Parr (B3LYP) hybrid exchange-correlation functional and the recently developed XYG3 type (xDH) doubly hybrid functionals. Quantum dynamical results calculated on these density functional theory surfaces revealed that the accuracy for the surfaces from the xDH functionals is quite satisfactory as compared to the benchmark Boothroyd-Keogh-Martin-Peterson-2 surface, whereas B3LYP is wholly inadequate in describing this simplest reaction despite the fact that it has been widely used to study reactions in complex systems. It is shown that further improvements can be achieved if the xDH functional parameters are fine-tuned to be reaction specific. (C) 2015 AIP Publishing LLC.
In this study, the distributed averaging of high-dimensional first-order agents is investigated with relative-state-dependent measurement noises. Each agent can measure or receive its neighbours' state information with random noises, whose intensity is a non-linear matrix function of agents' relative states. By the tools of stochastic differential equations and algebraic graph theory, the authors give sufficient conditions to ensure mean square and almost sure average consensus and the convergence rate and the steady-state error for average consensus are quantified. Especially, if the noise intensity function depends linearly on the relative distance of agents' states, then a sufficient condition is given in terms of the control gain, the noise intensity coefficient constant, the number of agents and the dimension of agents' dynamics.
Urban traffic networks are large-scale systems, consisting of many intersections controlled by traffic lights and interacting connected links. For efficiently regulating the traffic flows and mitigating the traffic congestion in cities, a network-wide control strategy should be implemented. Control of large-scale traffic networks is often infeasible by only using a single controller, that is, in a centralised way, because of the high dimension, complicated dynamics and uncertainties of the system. In this study, the authors propose a multi-agent control approach using a congestion-degree-based serial scheme. Each agent employs a model-based predictive control approach and communicates with its neighbours. The congestion-degree-based serial scheme helps the agents to reach an agreement on their decisions regarding traffic control actions as soon as possible. A simulation study is carried out on a hypothetical large-scale urban traffic network based on the presented control strategy. The results illustrate that this approach has a better performance with regard to computation time compared with the centralised control method and a faster convergence speed compared with the classical parallel scheme.
The neural network ensemble (NINE) is a very effective way to obtain a good prediction performance by combining the outputs of several independently trained neural networks. Swarm intelligence is applied here to model the population of interacting agents or swarms that are able to self-organize. In this paper, we combine NNE and multi-population swarm intelligence to construct our improved neural network ensemble (INNE). First, each component forward neural network (FNN) is optimized by chaotic particle swarm optimization (CPSO) and gradient gescending (GD) algorithm. Second, in contrast to most existing NNE training algorithm, we adopt multiple obviously different populations to construct swarm intelligence. As an example, one population is trained by particle swarm optimization (PSO) and the others are trained by differential evolution (DE) or artificial bee colony algorithm (ABC). The ensemble weights are trained by multi-population co-evolution PSO-ABC-DE chaotic searching algorithm (M-PSO-ABC-DE-CS). Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed novel INNE algorithm is superior to existing popular NNE in function prediction. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a new infinite horizon neural-network-based adaptive optimal tracking control scheme for discrete-time nonlinear systems is developed. The idea is to use iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm to obtain the iterative tracking control law which makes the iterative performance index function reach the optimum. When the iterative tracking control law and iterative performance index function in each iteration cannot be accurately obtained, the convergence criteria of the iterative ADP algorithm are established according to the properties with finite approximation errors. If the convergence conditions are satisfied, it shows that the iterative performance index functions can converge to a finite neighborhood of the lowest bound of all performance index functions. Properties of the finite approximation errors for the iterative ADP algorithm are also analyzed. Neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function and compute the optimal control policy, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the iterative ADP algorithm. Convergence properties of the neural network weights are proven. Finally, simulation results are given to illustrate the performance of the developed method. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Extreme learning machine (ELM) as an emerging technology has achieved exceptional performance in large-scale settings, and is well suited to binary and multi-class classification, as well as regression tasks. However, existing ELM and its variants predominantly employ single hidden layer feedforward networks, leaving the popular and potentially powerful stacked generalization principle unexploited for seeking predictive deep representations of input data. Deep architectures can find higher-level representations, thus can potentially capture relevant higher-level abstractions. But most of current deep learning methods require solving a difficult and non-convex optimization problem. In this paper, we propose a stacked model, DrELM, to learn deep representations via extreme learning machine according to stacked generalization philosophy. The proposed model utilizes ELM as a base building block and incorporates random shift and kernelization as stacking elements. Specifically, in each layer. DrELM integrates a random projection of the predictions obtained by ELM into the original feature, and then applies kernel functions to generate the resultant feature. To verify the classification and regression performance of DrELM, we conduct the experiments on both synthetic and real-world data sets. The experimental results show that DrELM outperforms ELM and kernel ELMs, which appear to demonstrate that DrELM could yield predictive features that are suitable for prediction tasks. The performances of the deep models (i.e. Stacked Auto-encoder) are comparable. However, due to the utilization of ELM, DrELM is easier to learn and faster in testing. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Forest cover information is essential for natural resource management and for climate change studies. In this paper, the fractional forest cover (FFC) in Northeast China was estimated using neural networks (NNs) based on the Global Inventory Modeling and Mapping Studies (GIMMS3g) Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) data with 8-km resolution from 1982 to 2011. Furthermore, the relationship between FFC and two key climatic parameters (temperature and precipitation) was also analyzed. The validation results indicated a satisfactory performance (R-2 = 0.81, RMSE = 11.7%) of the FFC estimation method using NNs and time-series GIMMS3g NDVI data. The temporal and spatial characteristics of FFC changes were analyzed. The forest cover had a slightly decreasing trend during the study period for the entire Northeast China region. However, there were two distinct periods with opposite trends in the FFC change. The FFC had first increased from 1982 to 1998 (0.391% year(-1)), and then decreased from 1998 to 2011 (-0.667% year(-1)). The correlation analysis between the FFC and the climatic variations suggested that temperature and precipitation were not the decisive factors on controlling FFC changes in most of the Northeast China regions, and active forest disturbance might be the more important factor for FFC change in Northeast China.
How to express and reason with cardinal directions between extended objects such as lines and regions is an important problem in qualitative spatial reasoning (QSR), a common subfield of geographical information science and Artificial Intelligence (AI). The direction relation matrix (DRM) model, proposed by Goyal and Egenhofer in 1997, is one very expressive relation model for this purpose. Unlike many other relation models in QSR, the set-theoretic converse of a DRM relation is not necessarily representable in DRM. Schneider et al. regard this as a serious shortcoming and propose, in their work published in ACM TODS (2012), the objects interaction matrix (OIM) model for modelling cardinal directions between complex regions. OIM is also a tiling-based model that consists of two phases: the tiling phase and the interpretation phase. Although it was claimed that OIM is a novel concept, we show that it is not so different from DRM if we represent the cardinal direction of two regions a and b by both the DRM of a to b and that of b to a. Under this natural assumption, we give methods for computing DRMs from OIMs and vice versa, and show that OIM is almost the same as DRM in the tiling phase, and becomes less precise after interpretation. Furthermore, exploiting the similarity between the two models, we prove that the consistency of a complete basic OIM network can be decided in cubic time. This answers an open problem raised by Schneider et al. regarding efficient algorithms for reasoning with OIM.
During predation, a flying insect can form a stealth flight path. This behavior is called motion camouflage. Based on the study results of this behavior, the perception and neurology of flying insects, a novel bio-inspired guidance law is proposed for the terminal guidance for small aerial vehicle with charge-coupled device imaging seekers. The kinematics relationship between a small aerial vehicle and target is analyzed, and a two-dimensional guidance law model is established by using artificial neural networks. To compare with the proportional guidance law, the numerical simulations are carried out in the vertical plane and in the horizontal plane respectively. The simulation results show that the ballistic of the small aerial vehicle is straighter and the normal acceleration is smaller by using the bio-inspired guidance law than by using the proportional guidance law. That is to say, the bio-inspired guidance law just uses the information of the target from the imaging seeker, but the performance of it can be better than that of the proportional guidance law. (C) 2015 Production and hosting by Elsevier Ltd. on behalf of CSAA & BUAA.
An intragastric balloon robot is a less invasive and effective method for morbid obesity treatment. Traditional balloon robots need insertion tools and endoscopes for placement and removal of balloons in the stomach, which may cause complications such as nausea and sickness. This paper proposes a novel capsule robot for obesity treatment with wireless powering and communication. It is placed in the stomach through patient's swallowing and esophagus squirming motions. The balloon in the capsule system is then inflated and occupies the stomach to arouse the feeling of satiation. The wireless powering and communication systems are embedded into the capsule and the module outside of the human body for system operation control and energy supply. Sleeping mode is included in the electric circuit design to save power consumption. A research prototype is developed, and the system performance is tested with experiments. In addition, in vivo and in vitro experiments are conducted to validate system functionalities. The current prototype is used for principle verification and cannot be swallowed yet. The size of the capsule will be optimized and decreased further in future work.
In this paper, the first probably approximately correct (PAC) algorithm for continuous deterministic systems without relying on any system dynamics is proposed. It combines the state aggregation technique and the efficient exploration principle, and makes high utilization of online observed samples. We use a grid to partition the continuous state space into different cells to save samples. A near-upper Q operator is defined to produce a near-upper Q function using samples in each cell. The corresponding greedy policy effectively balances between exploration and exploitation. With the rigorous analysis, we prove that there is a polynomial time bound of executing nonoptimal actions in our algorithm. After finite steps, the final policy reaches near optimal in the framework of PAC. The implementation requires no knowledge of systems and has less computation complexity. Simulation studies confirm that it is a better performance than other similar PAC algorithms.
Space robots are a kind of coupling system with a rigid body and flexible structures, in which harmonic drive gears are usually used as speed reducers. Thus, the vibration problem is unavoidable due to maneuvering and external disturbances. This paper is concerned with the design and implementation of a fuzzy sliding mode control (FSMC) algorithm and a composite controller to dampen the vibration of a flexible manipulator with a flexible link and a harmonic drive gear (flexible joint). The designed controllers are used to dampen the end-point vibration of the flexible link and flexible joint manipulator, to compensate for unknown and time-varying nonlinear uncertain parameters, such as friction torque and flexible joint characteristics of a harmonic drive gear, etc. The experimental comparison research was conducted, including set-point active vibration control and vibration suppression under resonant excitation. The experimental results demonstrate that the FSMC and the composite algorithms can significantly enhance the performance of vibration suppression for flexible manipulator.
This paper investigates a class of flocks with an M-nearest-neighbor rule, where each agent's neighbors are determined according to M nearest agents with M being a given integer, rather than all the agents within a fixed metric distance as in the well-known Vicsek's model. Such a neighbor rule has been validated by biologists through experiments and the authors will prove that, similar to the Vicsek's model, such a new neighbor rule can also achieve consensus under some conditions imposed only on the system's speed and the number M, n, without resorting to any priori connectivity assumptions on the trajectory of the system. In particular, the authors will prove that if the number M is proportional to the population size n, then for any speed v, the system will achieve consensus with large probability if the population size is large enough.
This paper proposes a hybrid forecasting method to forecast container throughput of Qingdao Port. To eliminate the influence of outliers, local outlier factor (lof) is extended to detect outliers in time series, and then different dummy variables are constructed to capture the effect of outliers based on domain knowledge. Next, a hybrid forecasting model combining projection pursuit regression (PPR) and genetic programming (GP) algorithm is proposed. Finally, the hybrid model is applied to forecasting container throughput of Qingdao Port and the results show that the proposed method significantly outperforms ANN, SARIMA, and PPR models.
We proposed a new learning algorithm, named Geometric Reinforcement Learning (GRL), for path planning of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). The contributions of GRL are as: (1) GRL exploits a specific reward matrix, which is simple and efficient for path planning of multiple UAVs. The candidate points are selected from the region along the Geometric path from the current point to the target point. (2) The convergence of calculating the reward matrix is theoretically proven, and the path in terms of path length and risk measure can be calculated. (3) In GRL, the reward matrix is adaptively updated based on the Geometric distance and risk information shared by other UAVs. Extensive experimental results validate the effectiveness and feasibility of GRL on the navigation of UAVs.
In this paper, exponential finite-time coordination problems of multi-agent systems are investigated, including containment control and consensus. The theoretical basis is that a class of nonlinear systems has favourable finite-time convergence characteristic. For the objective of containment control, the proposed protocol ensures that the boundary agents in the same strong component exponentially reach a consensus and the internal agents exponentially converge to the convex hull spanned by the boundary agents in a finite time. For the objective of consensus, a pinning control strategy is designed for a fraction of agents such that all the agents exponentially reach a consensus with the leader in a finite time. The distinguished features of this paper lie in the following two points: (1) a smaller settling time of the Lyapunov function is obtained, which manifests in a faster convergence rate than the traditional one and (2) the weakly connected topology considered in this paper is more general than the ones (a spanning tree, a spanning forest, and so on) in other coordination problems. All the results are illustrated by some simulations.
This paper is concerned with the reliable observer-based H-infinity control problem for discrete-time Takagi-Sugeno (T-S) fuzzy systems with time-varying delay and stochastic actuator faults based on input-output approach. A discrete-time homogeneous Markov chain is used to represent the stochastic behavior of actuator faults. First, the discrete-time T-S fuzzy system is transformed into the form of interconnection of two subsystems by employing a new model transformation for the delayed state variables. Furthermore, a sufficient condition on discrete-time T-S fuzzy systems with time-varying delay and actuator faults, which guarantees the corresponding closed-loop system to be stochastically stable and preserves a guaranteed H-infinity. performance, is derived by employing the scaled small gain theorem. Meanwhile, the solvability condition for the reliable observer-based H-infinity control is also established, by which the reliable H-infinity fuzzy controller can be solved as linear matrix inequalities (LMIs). Finally, a numerical example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Multi-agent systems (MASs) are universal in nature, including biological, physical, and engineering systems. This paper investigates the robust consensus of a class of linear MASs with transmission noise. In detail, we develop a new framework to design an observer-based consensus protocol utilizing sampled data. That is, some sufficient conditions are derived to guarantee the existence of sampled period for the robust consensus of MASs with connected and undirected structure. Finally, numerical simulations are also given to validate our proposed methods.
This paper studies the consensus of multi-agent systems with binary-valued communication. We consider a group of agents on an undirected graph with a fixed topology, but differing from most existing work, each agent cannot get the true value of its neighbors' states. What information each agent gets from its neighbors is binary-valued measurement. A two-scale control algorithm is constructed: Each agent in the information network estimates the states of its neighbors' based on the binary-valued measurements for a short time, during which every node's state will keep constant; Based on the estimation of its neighbors' states and its own state, each agent designs its own control, by which the states will be updated and finally the system will achieve consensus. The state estimation algorithm is analyzed to have convergent and asymptotically efficient properties. As a result, the system is shown to be weak consensus by using a stochastic Lyapunov analysis.
This paper studies economic power dispatch strategy in a smart grid by using the distributed consensus protocol in multi-agent systems, where there are many generation units working cooperatively under a local neighboring area to achieve a minimum solution for the optimization problem of the total cost function. At first, the analysis indicates that the total cost for generators in a smart grid can reach its minimal value if the incremental cost for all generation units can achieve consensus and the balance between supply and demand of powers is satisfied. Then, by designing a distributed consensus protocol in multi-agent systems for the incremental cost with appropriate initial conditions, incremental cost consensus can be reached for all the generation units and the balance for the powers can also be kept. Thus, the optimization problem for the cost function of all generation units can be solved. Finally, some simulation examples are performed to verify the analysis in this paper.
Online heterogenous data is springing up while the data has the rich auxiliary information (e.g. pictures and videos) around the text. However, traditional topic models are suffering from the limitations to discover the topics effectively from the cross-media data. Incorporating with the convolutional neural network (CNN) feature, we propose a novel image dominant topic model, which projects both the text modality and the visual modality into a semantic simplex. Further, an improved CNN feature is introduced to capture more visual details by fusing the convolutional layer and fully-connected layer. Experimental comparisons with state-of-the-art methods in the cross-media topic detection task show the effectiveness of our model.
Successful semantic segmentation methods typically rely on the training datasets containing a large number of pixel-wise labeled images. To alleviate the dependence on such a fully annotated training dataset, in this paper, we propose a semi-and weakly-supervised learning framework by exploring images most only with image-level labels and very few with pixel-level labels, in which two stages of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) training are included. First, a pixel level supervised CNN is trained on very few fully annotated images. Second, given a large number of images with only image-level labels available, a collaborative-supervised CNN is designed to jointly perform the pixel-level and image-level classification tasks, while the pixel-level labels are predicted by the fully-supervised network in the first stage. The collaborative-supervised network can remain the discriminative ability of the fully-supervised model learned with fully labeled images, and further enhance the performance by importing more weakly labeled data. Our experiments on two challenging datasets, i.e, PASCAL VOC 2007 and LabelMe LMO, demonstrate the satisfactory performance of our approach, nearly matching the results achieved when all training images have pixel-level labels.
People counting in extremely dense crowds is an important step for video surveillance and anomaly warning. The problem becomes especially more challenging due to the lack of training samples, severe occlusions, cluttered scenes and variation of perspective. Existing methods either resort to auxiliary human and face detectors or surrogate by estimating the density of crowds. Most of them rely on hand-crafted features, such as SIFT, HOG etc, and thus are prone to fail when density grows or the training sample is scarce. In this paper we propose an end-to-end deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) regression model for counting people of images in extremely dense crowds. Our method has following characteristics. Firstly, it is a deep model built on CNN to automatically learn effective features for counting. Besides, to weaken influence of background like buildings and trees, we purposely enrich the training data with expanded negative samples whose ground truth counting is set as zero. With these negative samples, the robustness can be enhanced. Extensive experimental results show that our method achieves superior performance than the state-of-the-arts in term of the mean and variance of absolute difference.
Automatically describing the content of an image is a fundamental problem in artificial intelligence that connects computer vision and natural language processing. In contrast to the previous image description methods that focus on describing the whole image, this paper presents a method of generating rich image descriptions from image regions. First, we detect regions with R-CNN (regions with convolutional neural network features) framework. We then utilize the RNN (recurrent neural networks) to generate sentences for image regions. Finally, we propose an optimization method to select one suitable region. The proposed model generates several sentence description of regions in an image, which has sufficient representative power of the whole image and contains more detailed information. Comparing to general image level description, generating more specific and accurate sentences on the different regions can satisfy more personal requirements for different people. Experimental evaluations validate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
In real video surveillance scenarios, visual pedestrian attributes, such as gender, backpack, clothes types, are very important for pedestrian retrieval and person re-identification. Existing methods for attributes recognition have two drawbacks: (a) handcrafted features (e.g. color histograms, local binary patterns) cannot cope well with the difficulty of real video surveillance scenarios; (b) the relationship among pedestrian attributes is ignored. To address the two drawbacks, we propose two deep learning based models to recognize pedestrian attributes. On the one hand, each attribute is treated as an independent component and the deep learning based single attribute recognition model (DeepSAR) is proposed to recognize each attribute one by one. On the other hand, to exploit the relationship among attributes, the deep learning framework which recognizes multiple attributes jointly (DeepMAR) is proposed. In the DeepMAR, one attribute can contribute to the representation of other attributes. For example, the gender of woman can contribute to the representation of long hair and wearing skirt. Experiments on recent popular pedestrian attribute datasets illustrate that our proposed models achieve the state-of-the-art results.
Smile detection from facial images is a specialized task in facial expression analysis with many potential applications such as smiling payment, patient monitoring and photo selection. The current methods on this study are to represent face with low-level features, followed by a strong classifier. However, these manual features cannot well discover information implied in facial images for smile detection. In this paper, we propose to extract high-level features by a well-designed deep convolutional networks (CNN). A key contribution of this work is that we use both recognition and verification signals as supervision to learn expression features, which is helpful to reduce same-expression variations and enlarge different-expression differences. Our method is end-to-end, without complex pre-processing often used in traditional methods. High-level features are taken from the last hidden layer neuron activations of deep CNN, and fed into a soft-max classifier to estimate. Experimental results show that our proposed method is very effective, which outperforms the state-of-the-art methods. On the GENKI smile detection dataset, our method reduces the error rate by 21% compared with the previous best method.
Q-learning is a kind of model-free reinforcement learning algorithm which is effective in Robot's navigation applications. Unfortunately, Lego Mindstorms EV3 robot's file writing speed is sometimes too slow to implement Q-learning algorithm. In this paper, an approach is proposed to simplify Q-learning discrete value table into a new version that stores only one optimum action and its Q-value instead of storing every action's Q-value in each state. Exploration and contrast experiments show that our algorithm learns much faster than the original Q-learning without losing the ability to find a better policy in navigation task.
In this paper, the leader-following consensus problem of multi-agent systems with nonlinear heterogeneous dynamics and switching topologies is considered. All agent outputs are required to track a leader output which is assumed as a desired value. By input-output feedback linearization, the nonlinear heterogeneous system is decomposed into equivalent linear systems and internal dynamics. Then a distributed auxiliary controller for every agent using local information is designed and a sufficient consensus condition is given under switching topologies with every possible topology containing a directed spanning tree. Furthermore, it is proved that the consensus can be achieved with the same condition for multi-agent systems under switching topologies frequently containing a directed spanning tree. Simulation results verify the effectiveness of the control protocol.
Low-level saliency cues or priors do not produce good enough saliency detection results especially when the salient object presents in a low-contrast background with confusing visual appearance. This issue raises a serious problem for conventional approaches. In this paper, we tackle this problem by proposing a multi-context deep learning framework for salient object detection. We employ deep Convolutional Neural Networks to model saliency of objects in images. Global context and local context are both taken into account, and are jointly modeled in a unified multi-context deep learning framework.
A considerable portion of web images capture events that occur in our personal lives or social activities. In this paper, we aim to develop an effective method for recognizing events from such images. Despite the sheer amount of study on event recognition, most existing methods rely on videos and are not directly applicable to this task. Generally, events are complex phenomena that involve interactions among people and objects, and therefore analysis of event photos requires techniques that can go beyond recognizing individual objects and carry out joint reasoning based on evidences of multiple aspects. Inspired by the recent success of deep learning, we formulate a multi-layer framework to tackle this problem, which takes into account both visual appearance and the interactions among humans and objects, and combines them via semantic fusion. An important issue arising here is that humans and objects discovered by detectors are in the form of bounding boxes, and there is no straightforward way to represent their interactions and incorporate them with a deep network. We address this using a novel strategy that projects the detected instances onto multi-scale spatial maps. On a large dataset with 60, 000 images, the proposed method achieved substantial improvement over the state-of-the-art, raising the accuracy of event recognition by over 10%.
Deep learning methods have achieved great successes in pedestrian detection, owing to its ability to learn discriminative features from raw pixels. However, they treat pedestrian detection as a single binary classification task, which may confuse positive with hard negative samples (Fig.1 (a)). To address this ambiguity, this work jointly optimize pedestrian detection with semantic tasks, including pedestrian attributes (e.g. 'carrying backpack') and scene attributes (e.g. 'vehicle', 'tree', and 'horizontal'). Rather than expensively annotating scene attributes, we transfer attributes information from existing scene segmentation datasets to the pedestrian dataset, by proposing a novel deep model to learn high-level features from multiple tasks and multiple data sources. Since distinct tasks have distinct convergence rates and data from different datasets have different distributions, a multi-task deep model is carefully designed to coordinate tasks and reduce discrepancies among datasets. Extensive evaluations show that the proposed approach outperforms the state-of-the-art on the challenging Caltech [9] and ETH [10] datasets where it reduces the miss rates of previous deep models by 17 and 5.5 percent, respectively.
Cross-modal retrieval extends the ability of search engines to deal with the massive cross-modal data. The goal of image-text cross-modal retrieval is to search images (texts) by using text (image) queries by computing the similarities of images and texts directly. Many existing methods rely on low-level visual features and textual features for cross-modal retrieval, ignoring the characteristics existing in the raw data of different modalities. In this paper, a novel model based on modality-specific feature learning is proposed. Considering the characteristics of different modalities, the model uses two types of convolutional neural networks to map the raw data to the latent space representations for images and texts, respectively. Particularly, the convolution based network used for texts involves word embedding learning, which has been proved effective to extract meaningful textual features for text classification. In the latent space, the mapped features of images and texts form relevant and irrelevant image-text pairs, which are used by the one-vs-more learning scheme. This learning scheme can achieve ranking functionality by allowing for one relevant and more irrelevant pairs. The standard backpropagation technique is employed to update the parameters of two convolutional networks. Extensive cross-modal retrieval experiments are carried out on three challenging datasets that consist of image-document pairs or image-query clickthrough data from a search engine, and the results firmly demonstrate that the proposed model is much more effective.
This work is concerned with stochastic consensus of multi-agent systems with additive measurement noises, where the information exchange among agents is described by a directed graph. By combining the algebraic graph theory, matrix theory and stochastic analysis, the stochastic weak and strong consensus are examined. For the case with general digraphs, we give the necessary and sufficient conditions for the almost sure strong consensus and show that the mean square strong consensus and almost sure strong consensus are equivalent. We also give some necessary conditions and sufficient conditions for the mean square and almost sure weak consensus. Especially, the necessary and sufficient conditions for the mean square weak consensus are given for the case with undirected graphs.
The fifth-generation (5G) communications and wireless networks, which are expected as the next new era of wireless networks, have received much research attention in recent years. The academic and industrial researchers have developed a great deal of 5G candidate techniques to improve the performance of 5G wireless networks, where the most important two metrics are the spectrum efficiency and the quality-of-service (QoS). Jointly using full-duplex (FD) wireless communications and device-to-device (D2D) communications, forming the FD-D2D communications, can significantly increase the spectrum efficiency of 5G wireless networks in frequency/time/space-domains. On the other hand, not only increasing the spectrum efficiency, but also supporting QoS guarantees is very important for 5G wireless networks. However, supporting QoS guarantees for FD-D2D communications imposes the new challenges that we need to provide heterogeneous QoS guarantees for different types of traffics over the same link simultaneously. To overcome the aforementioned problems, in this paper we propose the heterogeneous statistical QoS provisioning framework for FD-D2D communications over 5G wireless networks. In particular, we formulate the optimization problems to maximize the system throughput subject to heterogeneous statistical delay-bound QoS requirements. Then, we convert the resulted non-convex optimization problem into an equivalent convex optimization problem, solving which we can derive the optimal heterogeneous-QoS-driven power allocation scheme to maximize the system throughput while guaranteeing the heterogeneous statistical delay-bound QoS requirements. The extensive simulation results obtained show that our proposed heterogeneous-QoS-driven power allocation scheme can significantly increase the system throughput while guaranteeing heterogeneous statistical delay-bound QoS requirements.
In recent years, neural network accelerators have been shown to achieve both high energy efficiency and high performance for a broad application scope within the important category of recognition and mining applications.
The Mandarin speech always involves a rich set of regional accents, so that modeling the acoustic variabilities imposed by accents is a challenging task for Mandarin speech recognition. This work investigated using limited accented data to design a multi-accent decision tree, so as to improve the recognition accuracy of traditional GMM-HMM systems. Moreover, the deep neural networks with senone/monophone outputs were used with the multi-accent decision tree based GMM-HMM, in order to build up a robust tandem system. The experiments were evaluated on the database consisting of accented speech collected from seven typical accent regions. The systems designed with the proposed method significantly outperformed conventional GMM-HMMs systems by 1.66% absolute (8.1% relative). The tandem systems trained with DNN and multi-accent decision tree can further reduce the character error rate by 4.64% absolute (24.8% relative), compared to the accent-dependent GMM-HMM system.
The Transfer Equipment Cask (TECA) is a key solution for Remote Handling in Tokamak Equator Port Plug (TEPP) operations. The paper mainly introduces the design of the TECA whose main usage is to complete fusion reactor in transport, dragging and repair work. Firstly, The Air Transfer System (ATS) is discussed, the modular design details of the ATS is presented. Additionally, a 6-DOFs rhombic-like parallel robot capable of being used for docking with minimum misalignment is discussed. Moreover, the Bidirectional Sealing Door (BSD) system and the tractor which is divided into a manipulator and drag mechanism is introduced. Eventually, the preliminary experimental results indicate that the designs of the TECA are feasible and yield realistic applications for the remote handing of International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER).
The gait planning is essential in the sampling-based footstep planning of biped robot. However, conventional gait planning methods of Zero Moment Point and neural networks are much time-consuming, and existing central pattern generator (CPG) based method can only generate the gait of going forward. Based on the phase and trajectory analysis, this paper proposes a modified gait planning method based on CPG for the sampling-based footstep planning. By adjusting the parameter of the CPG, it is available to obtain different gaits of going forward, stepping side and swerving, and realize smooth transition between these gaits. Physical experiments on NAO robot verified the effectiveness of the proposed method.
The delta parallel mechanism has proven to be a very successful parallel robot design and a number of variants have been proposed in the literature. Taking advantage of its simple construction and the intrinsic features such as high stiffness and accuracy, delta robots play an important role both in the fields of industrial robots and academical fields. In this paper, dynamic modeling and control simulation of a cable-driven modified delta manipulator for haptic interface are discussed. For the parallel mechanism is highly coupled and nonlinear, the dynamic model is of great importance for model-based controller to achieve a satisfactory performance. Based on the principle of virtual work, the dynamic equations of this manipulator are established. The proportional-derivative (PD) computed torque control scheme is proposed for trajectory tracking. With the help of the virtual prototype builded in ADAMS software and used in MATLAB software, the co-simulation is accomplished and the results validate the performance of the controller proposed in this paper.
Omni-directional Wheeled Mobile Robots (Omni-WMR) are holonomic system able to move sideways. They have locomotive advantage and are widely deployed in a larger range of application fields, especially in narrowly constrained service-styled manufacturing industries. To ensure smooth motion and full development of locomotive advantages, motion planning draws great attention. Thanks to the mechanism of powered caster wheel (PCW), the motion of Omni-WMR can be decoupled. The collective motion can be decomposed into dimensions of x, y and theta, then planned independently and superposed. In this way trajectory can be planned in the Cartesian space, and later on transformed to the joint space through inverse instantaneous kinematics model for actuation of the motor at each joint. Quintic-polynomial interpolation is used for the case of start to goal with only initial and final configurations known, and piecewise-cubic-spline interpolation is applied for the case of a sequence of intermediate way-points known in the configuration space as input. Here the geometric points for the robot to go through are assumed to be known as a priori without loss of generality. The approaches are implemented in python on ROS (Robot Operating System), and these modular ROS packages are tested on a physical Omni-WMR developed at our lab. Meanwhile, these ROS packages are also tested equivalently in a virtual simulation environment modelled using ROS stage simulator. The experimental results have proved that the motion planning algorithms are able to generate smooth velocity profile for the robot to achieve the goal, which have validated the effectiveness of these algorithms.
Tactile sensor with good flexibility is a promising candidate for artificial skin of intelligent robots. Some specific structures and models have been proposed to realize sensing of 3-demensional tactile forces. Due to the natural couple properties of these sensor models, decoupling has become an obstacle on the road to practical sensors. In this paper, we start from an elastic mechanics model which could approximately characterize the relationship between 3-dimensional forces applied on the surface of the sensor and its deformation. Further analysis shows that the deformations caused by several forces could be treated separately in the point force applied scenario. According to this analysis, we derive an exact relationship between the numbers of the sensing elements and the applied forces. We confirm this relationship by numerically computing the Jacobian matrix and investigating the singular values of it.
The paper presents a new approach on haptic interface control for NAO robotic hand. The haptic teleoperation of NAO robot hand raises some issues, mapping the haptic device dynamic being the most important. The mapping was achieved through Neural Network by determining a dynamic gain of robot haptic feedback. The results lead to the achievement of the haptic intelligent interfaces for the NAO robot hand control which can be integrated into an innovative haptic robot control system.
Over the last decade, a kind of Quad-rotor aerial robot, with its characteristics such as simple structure and flexible control, has become the hotspot in the field of small aerial robots research content. In this paper, based on the energy shaping theory, the controlled Lagrangians method will be introduced into the attitude stability control system of Qaud-rotor aerial robot in order to predigest the design procedure and guarantee the exact tracking to the desired angle signals. At finally, the availability of the proposed scheme is verified through numerical simulation with different initial state.
In this paper, topology inference of complex dynamical networks with coupling delay and stochastic perturbations is considered. Based on the LaSalle-type theorems for stochastic differential delay equations, an adaptive estimation strategy is proposed to infer the underlying topology of a general delayed complex dynamical network by constructing an auxiliary network. It is worth noting that the unknown network model contains practical stochastic perturbations, and noisy node dynamics is taken as control input of the constructed auxiliary network. Numerical simulations will provide to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.
In this paper, an optimal self-learning cooperative control for heterogeneous multi-agent systems by iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) is developed. The main idea is to design an optimal control law by policy iteration based ADP technique which makes all the agents track a given dynamics and simultaneously makes the iterative performance index function reach the Nash equilibrium. The cooperative policy iteration algorithm for graphical differential games is developed to achieve the optimal control law for the agent of each node. Convergence properties are analyzed which make the performance index functions of heterogeneous multi-agent differential graphical games converge to the Nash equilibrium. Simulation example is given to show the effectiveness of the developed optimal self-learning control scheme.
A decentralized backstepping integral sliding mode control scheme is proposed for reconfigurable manipulators. Based on the Lyapunov stability theory, the backstepping technique is adopted to simplify the controller design process, and the integral sliding mode control is introduced due to its advantages such as robustness, simplicity, fast response. Furthermore, the Radial Basis Function Neural Networks (RBFNN), whose weights are updated by adaptive laws, are used to approximate or compensate the unknown term and interconnection term. In this scheme, it not only can follow the joint desired trajectories with high accuracy performance within a short time, but also reduce the serious chattering phenomenon harmful to the working life of the actuator. Moreover, the decentralized architecture could reflect the modularization property of reconfigurable manipulators sufficiently. In contrast to the controller with linear sliding mode and terminal sliding mode, the simulation results with two different configurations of reconfigurable manipulators show that the proposed scheme could achieve the satisfactory control performance, as well as easily be applied in practice.
Force sensing including collision position, force direction and force size makes robots smoothly interact with environment to strongly adapt to outside world. Skin sensing imitates principle of human skin using special material and physical structure with disadvantages of complex design, low sampling rate, and poor generality and so on. In this paper, the method of using fore/torque sensor to calculate collision position, force direction and force size is provided. We detail elaborate algorithm based on physical principle, and unified modeling method for basic geometric surface. Considering algorithm solvability and uniqueness, three constraints are proposed, which are joint constraint, contour constraint and force direction constraint. In order to solve conflict solution of algorithm in redundant constraints, we propose compatibility and method. In addition, gravity compensation and dynamic compensation are also described for working manipulator in gravity and dynamic environment. As a result of our simulation experiment, we would find that this method is effective for manipulator to measure collision position.
Traditionally, pinning control design is based on the same input signal. However, in some real world engineering systems, it is difficult or very expensive to obtain the same input signal for all the pinned nodes due to different observations and configuration. To overcome the above essential difficulty, this paper develops a novel cooperative pinning synchronization method for a class of typical undirected complex dynamical networks. In detail, apart from the traditional pinning control, the proposed cooperative pining control approach utilizes different observations to drive all network nodes with the same reference signal. Built on this method, this paper obtains a sufficient condition for pinning synchronization of undirected connected networks. Moreover, this paper further explores the design algorithms for pinning controllers. Finally, the numerical simulations are given to validate the proposed approach.
This paper studies the leader-following consensus problem of discrete-time generic linear multi-agent systems. Agents share their states with their neighbors via a noisy communication network. An algorithm is proposed for the leader-following consensus problem where the time-varying gain is employed to attenuate noises. Different from most previous results where all agents have to use the same time-varying gain, each agent can have its own time-varying gain. Sufficient conditions for solving the mean square leader-following consensus problem are obtained: 1) the communication topology graph has a spanning tree; 2) the summation of every time-varying gain from zero to infinite is infinite; 3) all time-varying gains are infinitesimal of the same order as time goes to infinity; and 4) all roots of a so-called "parameter polynomial" are inside the unit circle. Finally, a simulation example is given to verify the theoretical results.
The group consensus problem of nonlinear multi-agent systems with delayed Lurie-type dynamics is investigated in this paper. A pinning control scheme is designed under undirected communication graph. Firstly, a sufficient condition in terms of linear matrix inequalities(LMIs) is obtained to guarantee the group consensus in the multi-agent systems without disturbance. Then, a sufficient condition guarantee the group consensus in the multi-agent systems with external disturbances and desired performance is derived. Moreover, the notion of the consensus region is introduced. Numerical example is finally provided to verify and illustrate the theoretical results.
In this paper, we study the coordination of discrete-time multi-agent systems under finite input sets. For uniformly quantized finite input sets, we design admissible control protocols based on relative state feedback and finite-level uniform quantization scheme to ensure practical synchronization. It is shown that the coarseness of the input set being less than an upper-bound depending on the network topology and the given synchronization precision is necessary and sufficient for the existence of admissible control protocols under which the system can achieve practical synchronization in some sense. This result builds a bidirectional relationship between the coarseness of the input set and the synchronization precision, and also gives the coarsest condition on the input set that enables the system to achieve synchronization under given precision.
In this paper, the distributed optimization problem for a continuous-time multi-agent systems is investigated. Different from most of the distributed optimization, we consider the dynamics of the agents, which are described in the high-order integrator form. Then we propose a distributed protocol design based on the gradient algorithm and integral feedback for the considered agent-network under a connected communication topology. A sufficient condition for the control parameters is given to make all the agents converge to optimal solution of the distributed optimization problem. Moreover, we also provide an example to illustrate the theoretical results.
The idea of guaranteed cost control is introduced into formation control problems for multi-agent systems. Firstly, a guaranteed cost function for the guaranteed cost formation control problem is constructed. Secondly, by the using consensus algorithm, the guaranteed cost formation control problem is transformed to the guaranteed cost consensus problem. Thirdly, a sufficient condition for the guaranteed cost formation control problem is presented. Moreover, an upper bound of the guaranteed cost function is determined and an explicit expression of the formation center function is given. Finally, numerical simulations are presented to illustrate the effectiveness of theoretical results.
In this paper, we discuss the distributed set surrounding problem of a multi-agent system with a switching communication topology. With considering a convex target set in Euclidean space, we propose a distributed controller to the agents so as to surround the target set with the same distance and also keep the desired projection angle from the specified neighbors defined in the configuration graph. Furthermore, we obtain some initial conditions to ensure the consistent case. Finally, when the convex set reduces into the origin we provide modulus consensus results and then give estimation when agents are disturbed with bounded uncertainties.
The deep bottleneck (BN) feature based ivector solution has been recognized as a popular pipeline for language identification (LID) recently. However, issues such as how to extract more effective BN features and how to fully utilize features extracted from deep neural networks (DNN) are still not well investigated. In this paper, these issues are empirically tackled by means as follows: First, two novel types of deep features, phone-discriminant and triphone-discriminate are extracted. Then, DNNs are trained both separately and jointly on multilingual corpuses to produce different BN features. Finally, tandem fashion on deep BN features is applied to build enhanced deep features. Experiment results show that systems built on top of tandem deep features obtain 19% and 42% relative equal error rate reduction on average on NIST LRE 2007 over the counterpart built on traditional deep BN features and the cepstral feature based LID system, respectively.
It has been demonstrated that the speech recognition performance can be improved by adding extra articulatory information, and subsequently, how to use such information effectively becomes a challenging problem. In this paper, we propose an attribute-based knowledge integration architecture which is realized by modeling and learning both acoustic and articulatory cues simultaneously in a uniform framework. The framework promotes the performance by providing attribute-based knowledge in both feature and model domains. In model domain, the attribute classification is used as the secondary task to improve the performance of an MTL-DNN used for speech recognition by lifting the discriminative ability on pronunciation. In feature domain, an attribute-based feature is extracted from an MTL-DNN trained with attribute classification as its primary task and phonetic/tri-phone state classification as the secondary task. Experiments on TIMIT and WSJ corpuses show that the proposed framework achieves significant performance improvements compared with the baseline DNN-HMM systems.
Traditional automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems usually get a sharp performance drop when noise presents in speech. To make a robust ASR, we introduce a new model using the multi-task learning deep neural networks (MTL-DNN) to solve the speech denoising task in feature level. In this model, the networks are initialized by pre-training restricted Boltzmann machines (RBM) and fine-tuned by jointly learning multiple interactive tasks using a shared representation. In multi-task learning, we choose a noisy-clean speech pair fitting task as the primary task and separately explore two constraints as the secondary tasks: phone label and phone cluster. In experiments, the denoised speech is reconstructed by the MTL-DNN using the noisy speech as input and it is respectively evaluated by the DNN-hidden Markov model (HMM) based and the Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM)-HMM based ASR systems. Results show that, using the denoised speech, the word error rate (WER) is respectively reduced by 53.14% and 34.84% compared with baselines. The MTL-DNN model also outperforms the general single-task learning deep neural networks (STL-DNN) model with a performance improvement of 4.93% and 3.88% respectively.
Recently a new approach to incorporate deep neural networks (DNN) bottleneck features into HMM based acoustic models using generalized variable parameter HMMs (GVP-HMMs) was proposed. As Gaussian component level polynomial interpolation is performed for each high dimensional DNN bottleneck feature vector at a frame level, conventional GVP-HMMs are computationally expensive to use in recognition time. To handle this problem, several approaches were exploited in this paper to efficiently use DNN bottleneck features in GVP-HMMs, including model selection techniques to optimally reduce the polynomial degrees; an efficient GMM based bottleneck feature clustering scheme; more compact GVP-HMM trajectory modelling for model space tied linear transformations. These improvements gave a total of 16 time speed up in decoding time over conventional GVP-HMMs using a uniformly assigned polynomial degree. Significant error rate reductions of 15.6% relative were obtained over the baseline tandem HMM system on the secondary microphone channel condition of Aurora 4 task. Consistent improvements were also obtained on other subsets.
This paper presents a novel artificial bandwidth extension (ABE) framework based on deep neural networks (DNNs) with a multiple-layer's deep architecture. It demonstrates the suitability of DNNs for modeling log power spectra of speech signals using the application of ABE. The DNN is used to estimate the log power spectra in the high-band. Two strategies are proposed to improve the performances of the proposed ABE system. First, global variance equalization is proposed to alleviate the over-smoothing issue in generated log spectra. Second, rich acoustic features in the low-band are considered to improve the construction of the log power spectra in the high-band. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework can achieve significant improvements in both objective and subjective measures over the different baseline methods.
In music interferences condition, source separation is very difficult. In this paper, we propose a novel recurrent network exploiting the auto-regressions of speech and music interference for source separation. An auto-regression can capture the shortterm temporal dependencies in data to help the source separation. For the separation, we independently separate the magnitude spectra of speech and interference from the mixture spectra by including an extra masking layer in the recurrent network. Compared to directly evaluating the ideal mask, the extra masking layer relaxes the assumption of independence between speech and interference which is more suitable for the real world environments. Using the separated spectra of speech and interference, we further explore a discriminative training objective and joint optimization framework for the proposed network, which incorporates the correlations and spectral dependencies of speech and interference into the separation. Systematic experiments show that the proposed model is competitive with the state-of-the-art method in singing-voice separations.
End-to-end speech recognition systems have been successfully designed for English. Taking into account the distinctive characteristics between Chinese Mandarin and English, it is worthy to do some additional work to transfer these approaches to Chinese. In this paper, we attempt to build a Chinese speech recognition system using end-to-end learning method. The system is based on a combination of deep Long Short-Term Memory Projected (LSTMP) network architecture and the Connectionist Temporal Classification objective function (CTC). The Chinese characters (the number is about 6,000) are used as the output labels directly. To integrate language model information during decoding, the CTC Beam Search method is adopted and optimized to make it more effective and more efficient. We present the first-pass decoding results which are obtained by decoding from scratch using CTC-trained network and language model. Although these results are not as good as the performance of DNN-HMMs hybrid system, they indicate that it is feasible to choose Chinese characters as the output alphabet in the end-to end speech recognition system.
In this paper, we propose a method that use i-vectors and model adaptation techniques to improve the performance of deep neural networks(DNNs) based multi-accent Mandarin speech recognition. I-vectors which are speaker-specific features have been proved to be effective when used in accent identification. They can be used in company with conventional spectral features as the input features of DNNs to improve the discrimination for different accents. Meanwhile, we adapt DNNs to different accents by using an accent-specific top layer and shared hidden layers. The accent-specific top layer is used to adapt to different accents while the share hidden layers which can be seen as feature extractors can extract discriminative high-level features between different accents. These two techniques are complementary and can be easily combined together. Our experiments on the 400-hours Intel Accented Mandarin Speech Recognition Corpus show that our proposed method can significantly improve the performance of DNNs-based accented Mandarin speech recognition.
In this paper, we propose a novel pruning model of deep learning for large-scale distributed data processing to simulate a potential application in the geographical neighbor of Internet of Things. We formulate a general model of pruning learning, and we investigate the procedure of pruning learning to satisfy hard constraint and soft constraint. The hard constraint is a class of non-flexible setting without parameter learning to match the structure of distributed data. The soft constraint is a process of adaptive parameter learning to satisfy an inequality without any degradation of accuracy if the size of training data is large enough. Based on the simulation using distributed MNIST image database with large-scale samples, the performance of the proposed pruning model is better than that of a state-of-the-art model of deep learning in case of big data processing.
The rapid development of emerging technologies in the areas of traditional mechanical machinery, electronic engineering and advanced micro-processors, has brought a great opportunity for the development and applications of biomedical engineering instruments with robot technology in traditional medicine. At the same time, because of the progress of human civilisation and improvement of living standards, people have higher and more critical requirements to the bio-medical technology. Under these circumstances, researchers from all over the world have made fruitful achievements in promoting the development of medical robots, medical automation and robotic manipulation. Medical robot engineering is a discipline which applies the latest results of research and development to the medical treatment and rehabilitation. This paper reviews a range of widely-used applications of the micro-robot and rehabilitation robots to provide an overview and understanding of the current development in this area.
Control and actuation are the most important factors that determine the performance of traditional electromechanical robots. Bio-syncretic actuators are a potential trend for the next generation of robots to overcome the challenges in the control and actuation faced by the traditional robots and many novel bio-syncretic actuators have been reported with various biological entities. However, none of these works considers the movement control of such bio-syncretic robots. In this paper, we propose a new actuation approach strategy to assist bio-actuation with remote magnetic field, and present a dolphin-shaped micro-swimmer. Cardiomyocytes are used for bio-actuation. The mathematical model for the micro-swimmer is developed and is validated by comparing the experimental result and simulation result based on the properties of beating cells measured by SICM and AFM. This work is fundamental to the development of bio-syncretic robots.
Using the posts of Tianya Forum as the data source and adopting the socio psychology study results on societal risks perception, we analyze the challenges and feasibility of the document-level multiple societal risk classification of BBS posts. To effectively capture the semantics and word order of documents, a deep learning model as Post Vector is applied to realize the distributed vector representations of the posts in the vector space. Based on the distributed vector representations, cross-validated classification of the posts labeled by different annotators with KNN method and pairwise similarities comparisons of the posts between risk categories are implemented. The big variance of the results of cross validation shows the differences of individual risk perceptions, which reflects the challenges of societal risk classification. Furthermore, the higher similarities of posts in same societal risk category manifest the feasibility of the classification of societal risks, and indicate the possibility to improve the performance of the societal risk classification of BBS posts.
In this paper, we propose two stream-based active learning algorithms for single-hidden layer feed-forward neural networks (SLFNs) trained by extreme learning machine (ELM). Uncertainty and inconsistency are adopted as two sample selection criteria. Uncertainty reflects the nondeterminacy of a sample among different decision classes, which is calculated by information entropy or Gini-index. Inconsistency reflects the disagreement of the sample between its conditional features and decision labels, which is calculated by the lower approximations in fuzzy rough sets. Experimental results demonstrate that inconsistency-based strategy is more effective than uncertainty-based strategy for SLFNs under stream-based environment.
With the rapid technological development of various different satellite sensors, a huge volume of high-resolution image data sets can now be obtained and widely used in military and civilian fields. Detecting typical targets in satellite images is a challenging task due to the complicated background. Traditional manually engineered features (i.e. HOG, Gabor feature and Hough transform, etc.) do not work well for massive high-resolution remote sensing image data. Thus, we are expected to find an efficient way to automatically learn the presentations from the massive image data and increase the computational efficiency of target detection. Comparing to the general objects in nature images, the edge information of targets in satellite images shows more distinctive and concise characteristics. This paper proposes a new target detection framework based on EdgeBoxes and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). CNN can learn rich features automatically and is invariant to small rotation and shifts, has achieved state-of-the-art performance in many image classification databases. EdgeBoxes can generate a smaller set of object proposals based on the edges of objects. The proposed method can reduce the computational time of the detector. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed framework is effective in typical target detection systems.
Spectrum prediction in the cognitive radio system attracts more and more attention. It can predict future spectrum holes to save energy of spectrum sensing and to improve the efficiency of spectrum access. The current research on spectrum prediction is to use the prediction model such as back propagation (BP) neural network to predict. However, the performance of conventional spectrum prediction is not satisfied to meet the real system for its using inaccurate spectrum states and defects of the BP neural network. Therefore, we propose a spectrum prediction based on improved-BP neural networks. In the proposed model, the channel power values information instead of the channel states are used as the inputs of the spectrum prediction, the BP neural network optimized by the genetic algorithm and momentum algorithm is utilized in the prediction process, and the threshold interval is applied to determine predicted channel states. Our experimental results demonstrate that the predictive accuracy of the proposed spectrum prediction based on the improved-BP neural network is higher than spectrum prediction based on conventional BP neural network.
Quadruped robots are required to implement a fast transition between gaits in situations such as an abruptly increase in speed, an unexpected obstacle to stride over. Considering these situations, we propose a novel approach to achieve fast gait transition within a step cycle period of locomotion. This approach relies on the central pattern generators (CPGs) to produce rhythmic control signals, along with a CPG modulation to harmonize the limb phases. Therefore, smooth and fast gait transition can be obtained. We implement our approach on a simulated quadruped model. Simulation results demonstrate the adequacy of the approach to execute smooth and fast gait transition within a step cycle period. In addition, we analyze the ground reaction force (GRF), the pitch angle and the roll angle of the quadruped model to evaluate the proposed gait transition approach.
The vision systems mounted on mobile robots, which are moving on the rugged environment or enduring mechanical vibration, usually suffer from instable video during acquisition. In this paper, a fast video stabilization technique for robot application is presented. The proposed approach takes full advantage of intrinsic characteristics of the unwanted camera motion. There are four main steps involved in the proposed approach: feature extraction, motion estimation, motion compensation and undefined region mosaicing. We began with extracting the global features in 9 sub-regions of the current frame. The blocks with extracted features are matched in the reference frame from predicted start position. The computed motion consists of both expected and unexpected components. They are distinguished by motion smooth process and followed by motion compensation. As the result of frame shifting, some border regions are undefined. To solve this problem, inter-frames data is taken in consideration to fill those regions. A series of experiments with vivid data have been conducted. The results have revealed the effectiveness of the proposed technique.
Deep neural networks have shown significant improvements on acoustic modelling, pushing state-of-the-art performance in large vocabulary continuous speech recognition (LVCSR) tasks. However, training DNNs is very time-consuming on scaled data. In this paper, a data-parallel method, namely two-stage ASGD, is proposed. Two-stage ASGD is based on asynchronous stochastic gradient descent (ASGD) paradigm and is tuned for GPU-equipped computing cluster connected by 10Gbit/s Ethernet other than Infiniband. Several techniques, such as hierarchical learning rate control, double-buffering and order-locking are applied to optimise the communication-to-transmission ratio. The proposed framework is evaluated by training a DNN with 29.5M parameters using a 500-hours Chinese continuous telephone speech data set. By using 4 computer nodes and 8 GPU devices (2 devices used in each node), a 5.9 times acceleration is obtained over a single GPU with acceptable loss of accuracy (0.5% in average). A comparative experiment is done to compare the proposed two-stage ASGD with the parallel DNN training systems reported in prior work.
Automatic optimization of spoken dialog management policies that are robust to environmental noise has long been the goal for both academia and industry. Approaches based on reinforcement learning have been proved to be effective. However, the numerical representation of dialog policy is human-incomprehensible and difficult for dialog system designers to verify or modify, which limits its practical application. In this paper we propose a novel framework for optimizing dialog policies specified in domain language using genetic algorithm. The human-interpretable representation of policy makes the method suitable for practical employment. We present learning algorithms using user simulation and real human-machine dialogs respectively. Empirical experimental results are given to show the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
This paper proposes to extend the bandwidth of speech acquired by a system combining laser Doppler vibrometer (LDV) and an auxiliary microphone in adverse environments, where this system is referred to as LDV-AM. Traditional bandwidth extension (BWE) algorithms often need two stages to estimate the broadband spectral envelope. In the first stage, the codebook of the broadband spectral envelope is trained by a training data set. In the second stage, the broadband spectral envelope is estimated with the codebook by using different algorithms, such as neural networks and linear mapping. After considering that speech acquired by LDV only contains speech components lower than 2kHz, it seems improper to use the traditional BWE algorithms directly. Because these traditional BWE algorithms are often designed to extend narrawband telephone speech, which is sampled at 8kHz. With the help of the auxiliary microphone, the broadband spectral envelope of speech acquired by LDV can be estimated directly from speech acquired by this microphone. Experimental results show that the proposed BWE algorithm for LDV-AM can greatly improve MOS scores in adverse environments.
Wi-Fi based indoor positioning, which is based on attenuation of Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) is an emerging Location Based Service (LBS) technology. As positioning accuracy is sensitive to environmental factors, most of the existing algorithms based on experimental test perform badly without adaptation to dynamics of environment. In this paper, we propose an indoor positioning method by locating the representation of a cluster within similar environments. The K-Means algorithm is used to extract the similarities of the objects within the nearby area. To overcome the problem of parameter determination under the circumstances of lack of fingerprint and extra hardware, we proposed a Log-normal shadowing model (LNSM) with Artificial Neural Networks to estimate distance enabling the parameters to be dynamically adjusted according to the change of the environment. The experimental results of one day auto fair data demonstrate the performance of our method with a higher degree of accuracy than other methods.
Underactuated and weakly coupled mechanical systems of power integrators is Ubiquitous in physical implementations. Due to the presence of negative communication weights, whether bipartite output consensus can be reached remains unknown. Thus, it is of practical significance to investigate this issue. Furthermore, with input noises, an adaptive disturbance compensator, along with the technique of adding power integrators, is established for the complex multi-agent systems to improve the stability and robustness performance of the system.
In this paper, a distributed tracking controller with an adaptive law for adjusting coupling weights between neighboring agents is designed for leader-following multi-agent systems under fixed and switching topologies. In contrast to most existing literature where agents are integrators or double integrators, the dynamics of each agent is a general linear system in this paper. To handle this problem, the controller is based on Riccati inequalities. In traditional distributed static controllers, the coupling weight depends on the communication graph. However, coupling weights associated with the feedback gain matrix in our method are updated by state errors between neighboring agents. We further present the stability analysis of leader-following multi-agent systems under switching topology. Most traditional literature requires the graph to be connected anytime, while the communication graph is only assumed to be jointly connected in this paper. The design technique is based on Riccati inequalities and algebraic graph theory. Finally, simulations are given to show the validity of our method.
In recent years, researchers come up with lots of path following algorithms. One of their basic assumptions is that the robot's initial position is a single certain point. Actually, as robots rely on sensor data to locate by Kalman filter or Partical filter, it outputs a probability distribution. In this paper, F* describes a new path following algorithm with the robot's initial position is uncertain. It depends on Monte Carlo method and A* algorithm. Some important concepts are introduced and pseudo code is given to show how it works. Experiment results show that it is more effective than general algorithm.
A novel adaptive cruise control (ACC) system is proposed in this paper. A hierarchical control framework is adopted for the adaptive cruise control problem. For the upper level, a supervised actor-critic (SAC) reinforcement learning approach is presented to obtain the desired acceleration controller. In the lower level, throttle and brake controllers calculate the required throttle and/or brake signals based on the desired longitudinal acceleration. Feed-forward neural networks are used to implement the actor and critic components of the SAC learning algorithm. An online learning mechanism is introduced to implement the SAC training process. dSPACE simulator is used to verify the effectiveness of the ACC system. Typical emergency braking scenario is simulated to test the adaptability of the ACC system. Road condition change (e.g. wintry or wet conditions) simulation is first investigated to evaluate the robustness of the ACC system. Performance of the proposed ACC system is proved to be very practical.
This paper proposes the multiple actor-critic structures to obtain the optimal control via input-output data. The shunting inhibitory artificial neural network (SIANN) is used to classify the input-output data into one of several categories. Different performance index functions may be define for disparate categories. Neural networks are used to approximate the critic network and action network, respectively. It is proven that the model error asymptotically converges to zero and the closed unknown system is uniformly ultimately bounded. Simulation results demonstrate the performance of the proposed optimal control scheme for the unknown nonlinear system.
This paper presents a novel concept of swarm robots, which mostly emphasizes on organization structure, rather than merely the quantity. A novel task-oriented swarmrobotic system ( SociBuilder system) that is self-reconfigurable and supports self-assembly is introduced. The system simulates human labor division and social organization structure, thus it could represent human construction activities. SociBuilder System mainly consists of four parts: active region, socibots, warehouses and modules. Moreover, we propose a novel swarm system hierarchy, which includes three layers: human-computer interaction ( HCI) layer, task planning layer and execution layer. In the planning layer, we designe eight parts to actualize task-oriented mechanism, which are visual task analysis, task decomposition, task allocation, self-organization structure, action planning, expansion mechanism, sensor data analysis and derated analysis respectively. Besides, we displayed structures of Socibots and docking mechanism for self-assembly and self-reconfiguration in detail. Finally, three scenario simulations are implemented successfully including self-assembly task, cooperative task and building task.
Vision-based vehicle detection and classification is an important problem in machine vision and attracted widespread attention due to its wide range of applications in intelligent traffic system. Most of the current vehicle type classification methods require to precisely locate car positions and use the cropped car regions as input. In this paper, we propose deep convolutional neural networks for vehicle makers and models classification, which can take whole image as input without detecting car regions. Our main contributions are two-fold. Firstly, we find pre-train the deep CNN in the task to identify whether vehicle exists in input image can boost the performance of vehicle type classification. Secondly, we show data enhancement can further improve the classification accuracy. Our methods achieve the accuracy of 79% on a large scale Cars dataset, which is comparable with the recent state of the art which requires cropped car image as input.
To hit incoming balls back to a desired position, it is a key factor for table tennis robot to get racket parameters accurately. For modeling the stroke process, a novel model is built based on multiple neural networks. The input data for neural networks are the ball velocity differences during the stroke, and racket parameters are the output data. To reduce the influences from the invalid data, a neural network based on each empirical data is established. The training data are clustered based on the empirical data. The way of choosing a neural network to compute the racket parameters depends on the comparison between the new coming data and the empirical data. Moreover, a novel way based on a binocular vision system to verify the stroke model is proposed. Experimental results have showed that the stroke model created via the proposed method is applicable and the verification method is effective.
In this paper, a novel robust adaptive control scheme is proposed for a lower limb rehabilitation robot designed by our laboratory. The proposed control strategy is based on the radial basis function (RBF) neural networks and the parameters of the system dynamics are unknown. The weights of the RBF neural networks are updated by an adaptive law according to the Lyapunov stability analysis. The robustness against possible variations of the system dynamics and the external disturbance are considered in the control design. The proposed control strategy can not only avoid the complex procedure of system parameters identification, but also guarantee high robustness, small trajectory tracking errors and the assistance of the patient's voluntary participation. Using this control algorithm, the robot can regulate its exerted torque to adapt to the patient's active torque in real time during rehabilitation. The effectiveness of our control method is demonstrated by a simulation.
Variable-stiffness manipulators can produce intrinsically-safe motions, which are essential for next generation service robots. In this paper, the design analysis of a 3-DOF cable-driven joint module with variable stiffness is proposed. To achieve significant change of the stiffness, a flexure-based variable-stiffness device is serially connected to each of the cables. Due to the existence of redundant actuation, the stiffness of the joint module is controlled by regulating the cable tensions. To this end, the relationship between the stiffness matrix of the joint module and the cable tensions has been formulated and analyzed. Simulation examples are provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed stiffness evaluation algorithm.
Structured light calibration is one of the most crucial parts in a visual sensing system of welding robots. And the main aspect of the structured light calibration is the accuracy. Besides, a practical and simplistic calibration approach is preferable. In this paper, we propose a simple technique for structured light calibration. The vertical and horizontal lines are added to the planar object to facilitate points detection. The information from the camera calibration is fully used to detect the points on the light stripe. Then parameters of the structured light plane are estimated based on three non-collinear points definition. It could be said that the computation in this study is straight forward. Furthermore, it does not require any additional equipment. Thus, it is a truly simple and practical calibration method. According to the experimental results, the calibration errors are less than 0.2 mm. It shows that our proposed method is acceptable to measurement system of welding robots.
A rotor-separated dynamic modelling method is proposed based on the dynamics of spatial operator algebra in this paper, for n-DoF serial flexible-joint manipulators with harmonic reducers and with FS-SEAs (force sourced series elastic actuators) as flexible mechanisms. The completed dynamic model comprises the flexible joint dynamics and the whole arm dynamics. Inverse dynamics and forward dynamics of the two parts are researched respectively, through which the complete rotor-separated dynamic model is finally derived. The modelling method proposed in this paper is verified by simulations. And the simulation results demonstrate the significant advantages of the proposed method.
In this paper, an online robotic assembly parameter optimization method is developed, this method make industrial robots can assemble workpiece from unskilled to skilled just like human's learning behavior. With the development of the force sensor technology and force control technology, the industrial robots are used in high precision assembly tasks which are more complicated. In order to ensure the efficiency and success rate of assembly, it is necessary to select the appropriate assembly parameters, this problem is called robotic assembly parameters optimization. The traditional solutions are used by artificial methods, a lot of experiments are carried out to get the optimal parameters, which are very time-consuming and laborious. Especially when the production line changes, using the traditional solutions have to do heavy experiments again, it can't meet the requirements of today's flexible manufacturing requirements. This paper presents an online robotic assembly parameter optimization method, which is called Gaussian Process Regression surrogated Bayesian Optimization Algorithm based on the Orthogonal Exploration (OE-GPRBOA), this method can liberate the labor, does not require artificial participation. The algorithm can optimize the parameters autonomously, finally find the optimal parameters for robotic assembly. For GPR is suitable for processing high dimension, small size of sample and nonlinear complex regression problems, the proposed OE-GPRBOA method can be used for various assembly tasks. In this paper, peg-in-hole assembly experiments are performed. The proposed method also compared with design of experiments (DOE) method and GPRBOA method. Experimental results show that, the proposed OE-GPRBOA method has more efficiency to find the optimal assembly parameters, this method can generate big economic impact.
Face perception is one of the most important tasks in robot vision especially for service robots. The spatially enhanced local binary pattern histogram (eLBPH) method has been proved to be effective for facial image representation and analysis, but the expression factor isn't considered and the region-dividing method is rough. In this paper, inspired by the biological mechanism of human memory and face perception, we improve the eLBPH and propose a new method, expression-specific weighted local binary pattern histogram (EWLBPH). Accordingly, the new method introduces a semantic division process and an extended modulation process into the classical eLBPH. What's more, for the facial expression recognition, we propose a novel method which utilizes the convolutional deep belief network (CDBN) to extract discriminative information and represent them effectively. Finally, through experiments we verify the rationality and effectiveness of the improvement and two psychophysical findings.
This paper presents a method of modelling and control of servomotor for safe robots. Safety has indeed come to represent one of the major themes in robotics research for those applications that bring robots in contact with humans. Beyond this is the classical research topic of impedance control which has recently found new interest after the progress in the improved control and sensing principles. There exist a few different strategies for robot impedance control, where different amounts of sensor information are used. Among them, a kind of sensorless force control, torque observer method based on motor model, current and position information has many advantages and is widely researched. This paper discusses the permanent magnet synchronous motor (PMSM) modelling and control for the sensorless force control of safe robots. DSP controller for performing the vector and current control functions for a PMSM is implemented, and field oriented control is used to convert the PMSM into equivalent separately excited dc machines which have highly desirable control characteristics. Also, the nonlinear equations of the PMSM, PID controller equations and a real time model of the inverter switches are used in the simulation. At last, key theoretical results are verified by loading experiments.
Due to their advantages of high speed, high accuracy, high flexibility, and low cost, assembly robots are widely used in electronics and automotive industries. However, it is still a significant challenge for large-scale, heavy-weight part assembly using industrial robots. First, the deformation and motion errors of industrial robots caused by big payload cannot meet the accuracy requirement of large structure assembly. To solve this problem, an online kinematics compensation method based on Gaussian Process Regression is developed to predict and compensate the deformation and uncertainties of a large structure assembly robot. Second, before the assembly process, the optimal assembly path has to be planned. To this end, we propose an assembly path planning method based on learning from demonstration. Finally, an event-based control method is deployed to achieve optimal assembly cycle time to improve assembly efficiency and performance. An experimental system is developed to validate the proposed algorithm for large structure assembly and the results demonstrate that the proposed method can improve the assembly efficiency by more than 40%.
This paper focuses on the generation of a feasible path for a car-like vehicle working in a large scientific facility environment. Considering the curvature continuity and maximum curvature constraints, a novel path-smoothing algorithm is proposed in terms of cubic Bezier curves. In the algorithm, Bezier turn and Bezier path are respectively developed. Bezier turn is firstly designed to connect two arbitrary configurations. Then Bezier path could be obtained by using Bezier turns to fit a sequence of objective points offered by a collision-avoidance planner. With guidance of the algorithm, the vehicle could reach the target point with predefined direction. Simulation experiments are well conducted to demonstrate that the planned path is practical, and is accordant with human expert experience.
In this paper, we focus on the problem of fast and accurate featureless registration of outdoor large scale 3D point-clouds which possess great differences in the aspects of both resolution and view of point. There are two main methods generally used to solve this problem: feature based algorithm and point based one. However, feature based method can only be used in very special environments with clear geometric structure, while traditional point based method can only obtain a relative coarse estimation and is sensitive to initial alignment. Thus, in this paper, a registration algorithm, called Octree Based Multiresolution Heuristic ICP, is proposed.
The development of human-robot cooperation and the demand of high-precision robot control have increasingly spurred the usage of joint torque sensors. A build-in torque sensor for harmonic drive is researched in this paper, which utilizes strain gauges attached to the surface of the flexspline to measure torque. As the strain signal is significantly affected by the rotation of wave generator, positioning error of strain gauges and uneven distribution of the load torque, a new torque sensing technique with on-line torque estimation is developed to eliminate disturbance and achieve better measurement precision. Meanwhile, the dynamic strain of flexspline is obtained by finite element method, which is utilized to optimize the layout of strain gauges for lower disturbance. The proposed torque sensing technique is implemented and verified by experimental results.
In this paper, we present a biomimetic architecture to solve the difficulty in control of a snake-like robot with large degrees of freedom based on the structure of biological snakes and snake-like robots and their rhythm characteristic. Based on the Hodgkin-Huxley's CPG (central pattern generator) model, we established the CPG-networks to control the snake-like robot's gait. Compared with the previous research, parameter optimization is carried out for two typical gait patterns by means of genetic algorithm. It is proved that the CPG model can realize control of the snake-like robot gait by the simulation results. Finally, the aspects of future researches are discussed.
Owing to the rapid development of the communication industry, various kinds of radio frequency components are in great demand and put into mass production. Among them, passive devices such as microwave cavity filters, duplexers and combiners have experienced fast and unexpected upgrades. However, the tuning process of these products, which is always manually operated, still seems hard to be automatically replaced or improved because of the difficulties in extracting human experience. In this study, we make deep investigations into some previous automatic cavity filter tuning solutions, especially the ones using intelligent algorithms. In addition, we propose the method of intelligent tuning based on the reinforcement learning algorithm which dynamically extracts the human strategies during the tuning process. The experimental results prove the powerful performance of reinforcement learning in mastering human skills.
Robots with variable stiffness can achieve intrinsically safe motions, which are essential for human-robot interactions. This paper aims to design a variable stiffness device (VSD) for cable-driven robots. In order to achieve a large stiffness variation with a compact design, a novel VSD based on flexure mechanisms is proposed. Through design optimization, the resultant flexure-based VSD exhibits a liner relationship between its stiffness and deformation, which is ideal for stiffness control of a cable-driven joint module. To illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed VSD, cable-driven revolute joint modules with different arrangement of VSDs are studied, in which the joint module stiffness is regulated through tension control of the driving cables.
Biology can provide biomimetic components and new control principles for robotics. Developing a robot system equipped with bionic eyes is a difficult but exciting task. Researchers have been studying the control mechanisms of bionic eyes for many years and considerable models are available. In this paper, control model and its implementation on robots for bionic eyes are reviewed, which covers saccade, smooth pursuit, vergence, vestibule-ocular reflex (VOR), optokinetic reflex (OKR) and eye-head coordination. What is more, some problems and possible solutions in the field of bionic eyes are discussed and analyzed. This review paper can be used as a guide for researchers to identify potential research problems and solutions of the bionic eyes' motion control.
Wheeled robots usually move fast in relatively even surfaces while losing their major mobility on rough terrains. However, the tracked robots are superior to the wheel-types when they are to move on irregular terrains in spite of lower speed. In this paper, a Wheel-Track Transformation robot which combines the advantages of both mobile types by turning into wheel mode or track mode is designed. The robot consists of a robot platform equipped with an extra support mechanism, two wheels with transformation units and an universai wheel. Each transformation unit is composed of a rotating board and a double two-bar linkage mechanism. Three key mechanical components and several locomotion strategies on rough terrains are presented. Meanwhile, a detailed quasi-dynamic analysis is conducted to obtain proper torque capabilities of motors. Three prototypes of the proposed mechanism were manufactured and their fundamental mobility was evaluated by experiments.
Localization and navigation are fundamental issues to mobile robotics. An approach for localization and navigation for a mobile robot in indoor environment is proposed in this paper. In this approach, QR codes are used as landmarks to provide global pose references. Label and location information is stored in QR codes which are strategically placed in the operating environment. The mobile robot is equipped with an industrial camera pointing to the ceiling to read QR codes at high speed. The pose of the robot is estimated according to the positional relationship between QR codes and the robot. For the purpose of collision-free navigation, a laser range finder (LRF) is applied to build a map in unknown environment and detect obstacles. Dijkstra algorithm and Dynamic Window Approach (DWA) are applied in path planning based on a 2D grid map. Experimental results show that this approach has good feasibility and effectiveness.
A torque compensation method is proposed in this paper. Through theoretical analysis and experiments, a compensation strategy with tracking filter is designed for the control system of the industrial robot. This strategy can be used to suppress the time-varying nonlinear residual vibration of the end-effector which caused by the variation of the inertia in the serials robot. The main difference between this method and the method currently used is that it does not require the complex computation. Experimental results show that this torque compensation strategy can suppress the residual vibration to a level similar to that of the conventional method which has a complex computation of the estimation model. This strategy is an attractive method for the suppression of time varying nonlinear vibration in industrial robots which perform repetitive tasks because of the limit of computing power and memory space for their controllers.
Hierarchical phrase-based translation models have advanced statistical machine translation (SMT). Because such models can improve leveraging of syntactic information, two types of methods (leveraging source parsing and leveraging shallow parsing) are applied to introduce syntactic constraints into translation models. In this paper, we propose a bilingually-constrained recursive neural network (BC-RNN) model to combine the merits of these two types of methods. First we perform supervised learning on a manually parsed corpus using the standard recursive neural network (RNN) model. Then we employ unsupervised bilingually-constrained tuning to improve the accuracy of the standard RNN model. Leveraging the BC-RNN model, we introduce both source parsing and shallow parsing information into a hierarchical phrase-based translation model. The evaluation demonstrates that our proposed method outperforms other state-of-the-art statistical machine translation methods for National Institute of Standards and Technology 2008 (NIST 2008) Chinese-English machine translation testing data.
Processing marine-mammal signals for species classification and monitoring of endangered marine mammals are problems that have recently attracted attention in the scientific literature. Currently, the detection of signals of interest is typically accomplished through a combination of visual inspection of spectrograms and listening to the data. This paper presented an automatic identification algorithm for the Yangtze finless porpoise based on Hilbert Huang Transform and BP artificial neural network. The algorithm includes three steps: signal preprocessing, feature extraction and signal identification. In feature extraction stage of the algorithm, the algorithm extracts a 11-Dimension signal feature vector based on Hilbert Huang transform, Shannon entropy and Fourier transform. In the identification stage, the BP artificial neural network is trained by using the feature vector as input. At last, some experimental acoustic data files of finless porpoise are used to test the validity of the automatic identification algorithm. The identification rate of the algorithm proposed in this paper reaches 90% with highest false positive rate (<92 per hour) according to the human observation on the time-frequency spectrum. Because the Yangtze finless porpoise is one of the most critically endangered mammals in the world, so the presented method has great practical significance for protecting and monitoring the Yangtze finless porpoise in the wild.
With the development of X-ray, CT, MRI and other medical imaging techniques, doctors and researchers are provided with a large number of medical images for clinical diagnosis. It can largely improves the accuracy and reliability of disease diagnosis. In this paper, the method of brain CT image classification with Deep neural networks is proposed. Deep neural network exploits many layers of non-linear information for classification and pattern analysis. In the most recent literature, deep learning is defined as a kind of representation learning, which involves a hierarchy architecture where higher-level concepts are constructed from lower-level ones. The techniques developed from deep learning, enriched the main research aspects of machine learning and artificial intelligence, have already been impacting a wide range of signal and information processing researches. By using the normal and abnormal brain CT images, texture features are extracted as the characteristic value of each image. Then, deep neural network is used to realize the CT image classification of brain health. Experimental results indicate that the deep neural network have performed well in the CT images classification of brain health. It also shows that the stability of the network increases significantly as the depth of the network increasing.
Artificial Intelligence development is stepping into a new era due to the recent exciting achievements from neural network and statistical machine learning research communities. Statistic neural-computing based machine learning has been deemed as one of promising roads towards realizing the ideal of Artificial Intelligence promoted since last century. Learning is the key in making progress. Statistic machine learning is to obtain a probability distribution or a function from a set of training samples according to a certain optimization target over the training cost based on a predefined model. While there are many significant improvements in image, sound and text recognition and analyzing using neural network based learning strategies, a new open question emerges, that is, what is the next? To ask this question is to mean that the neural network solution is not an ultimate solution, and there will be more challenges to meet in coming future. We discussed these aspects of deep neural network research work in this paper and focused on semantics in deep neural-network computing models. We try to browse how semantics or knowledge are to be involved in deep neural network models and how the semantics and knowledge will be a key factor towards making more intelligent machines. We argue that priori semantics and knowledge in modelling a neural network is important, which could be the key for researchers to design intelligent machine models to perform complex tasks.
In the artificial intelligence area, one of the ultimate goals is to make computers understand human language and offer assistance. In order to achieve this ideal, researchers of computer science have put forward a lot of models and algorithms attempting at enabling the machine to analyze and process human natural language on different levels of semantics. Although recent progress in this field offers much hope, we still have to ask whether current research can provide assistance that people really desire in reading and comprehension. To this end, we conducted a reading comprehension test on two scientific papers which are written in different styles. We use the semantic link models to analyze the understanding obstacles that people will face in the process of reading and figure out what makes it difficult for human to understand a scientific literature. Through such analysis, we summarized some characteristics and problems which are reflected by people with different levels of knowledge on the comprehension of difficult science and technology literature, which can be modelled in semantic link network. We believe that these characteristics and problems will help us re-examine the existing machine models and are helpful in the designing of new one.
Deep learning methods are powerful tools but often suffer from expensive computation and limited flexibility. An alternative is to combine light-weight models with deep representations. As successful cases exist in several visual problems, a unified framework is absent. In this paper, we revisit two widely used approaches in computer vision, namely filtered channel features and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), and absorb merits from both by proposing an integrated method called Convolutional Channel Features (CCF). CCF transfers low-level features from pretrained CNN models to feed the boosting forest model. With the combination of CNN features and boosting forest, CCF benefits from the richer capacity in feature representation compared with channel features, as well as lower cost in computation and storage compared with end-to-end CNN methods. We show that CCF serves as a good way of tailoring pre-trained CNN models to diverse tasks without finetuning the whole network to each task by achieving state-of-the-art performances in pedestrian detection, face detection, edge detection and object proposal generation.
Recent advances in pedestrian detection are attained by transferring the learned features of Convolutional Neural Network (ConvNet) to pedestrians. This ConvNet is typically pre-trained with massive general object categories (e.g. ImageNet). Although these features are able to handle variations such as poses, viewpoints, and lightings, they may fail when pedestrian images with complex occlusions are present. Occlusion handling is one of the most important problem in pedestrian detection. Unlike previous deep models that directly learned a single detector for pedestrian detection, we propose DeepParts, which consists of extensive part detectors. DeepParts has several appealing properties. First, DeepParts can be trained on weakly labeled data, i.e. only pedestrian bounding boxes without part annotations are provided. Second, DeepParts is able to handle low IoU positive proposals that shift away from ground truth. Third, each part detector in DeepParts is a strong detector that can detect pedestrian by observing only a part of a proposal. Extensive experiments in Caltech dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of DeepParts, which yields a new state-of-the-art miss rate of 11.89%, outperforming the second best method by 10%.
The development of deep learning has empowered machines with comparable capability of recognizing limited image categories to human beings. However, most existing approaches heavily rely on human-curated training data, which hinders the scalability to large and unlabeled vocabularies in image tagging. In this paper, we propose a weakly-supervised deep learning model which can be trained from the readily available Web images to relax the dependence on human labors and scale up to arbitrary tags (categories). Specifically, based on the assumption that features of true samples in a category tend to be similar and noises tend to be variant, we embed the feature map of the last deep layer into a new affinity representation, and further minimize the discrepancy between the affinity representation and its low-rank approximation. The discrepancy is finally transformed into the objective function to give relevance feedback to back propagation. Experiments show that we can achieve a performance gain of 14.0% in terms of a semantic-based relevance metric in image tagging with 63,043 tags from the WordNet, against the typical deep model trained on the ImageNet 1,000 vocabulary set.
While feedforward deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been a great success in computer vision, it is important to note that the human visual cortex generally contains more feedback than feedforward connections. In this paper, we will briefly introduce the background of feedbacks in the human visual cortex, which motivates us to develop a computational feedback mechanism in deep neural networks. In addition to the feedforward inference in traditional neural networks, a feedback loop is introduced to infer the activation status of hidden layer neurons according to the "goal" of the network, e.g., high-level semantic labels. We analogize this mechanism as "Look and Think Twice." The feedback networks help better visualize and understand how deep neural networks work, and capture visual attention on expected objects, even in images with cluttered background and multiple objects. Experiments on ImageNet dataset demonstrate its effectiveness in solving tasks such as image classification and object localization.
In this paper, we propose a novel deep convolutional network (DCN) that achieves outstanding performance on FDDB, PASCAL Face, and AFW. Specifically, our method achieves a high recall rate of 90.99% on the challenging FDDB benchmark, outperforming the state-of-the-art method [ 23] by a large margin of 2.91%. Importantly, we consider finding faces from a new perspective through scoring facial parts responses by their spatial structure and arrangement. The scoring mechanism is carefully formulated considering challenging cases where faces are only partially visible. This consideration allows our network to detect faces under severe occlusion and unconstrained pose variation, which are the main difficulty and bottleneck of most existing face detection approaches. We show that despite the use of DCN, our network can achieve practical runtime speed.
Predicting face attributes in the wild is challenging due to complex face variations. We propose a novel deep learning framework for attribute prediction in the wild. It cascades two CNNs, LNet and ANet, which are fine-tuned jointly with attribute tags, but pre-trained differently. LNet is pre-trained by massive general object categories for face localization, while ANet is pre-trained by massive face identities for attribute prediction. This framework not only outperforms the state-of-the-art with a large margin, but also reveals valuable facts on learning face representation.
We will introduce our research on the service management in Shanghai World Expo from systemic view. We not only care the general queuing phenomena in the physical aspect, but also the psychological aspect in visitors and volunteers. Finally we wish study the systemic problem in the more large scale systems, including visitors, pavilions from various participated countries and organizers from State and Shanghai municipality, and lastly the wide netizens on the web, who care the activities related to world expo in all aspects. We use some concepts and methods in the complex system, such as self-similarity, self-organization, and also some concepts and theory from management science. Some of our colleagues also develop several advanced Information techniques for sensing the perception of the collective behavior happened in whole process in Expo.
Recently, deep learning method has been attracting more and more researchers due to its great success in various computer vision tasks. Particularly, some researchers focus on the study of multimedia analysis by deep learning method, and the research tasks mainly include the following six aspects: classification, retrieval, segmentation, tracking, detection and recommendation. As far as we know, there is not any literature conducting on survey of these studies, and it is of great significance for the community to review this subject. In this paper, we discuss the application of deep learning method in the six multimedia analysis tasks, and also point out the future directions of deep learning in multimedia analysis.
Reinforcement learning has provided an efficient approach to solve the optimal control of some complicated systems. In this paper we resort to the idea of off-policy scheme and propose a complete-model-free algorithm to the continuous-time nonlinear optimal control problems. The novel algorithm consists of two neural networks to approximate the value and policy and adapts them with continuous tuning laws. In addition, experience replay technique is employed so that both the instantaneous observations and the past data are utilized. The convergence to the optimal solutions are guaranteed under the Lyapunov analysis. A nonlinear system is simulated to test the learning performance.
The study of cell morphology changes leads the investigation of the cell fate decision and its function. Bright-field imaging analysis allow us to use a labeling free and non-invasive approach to measure the morphological dynamics during cellular reprogramming, which includes induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), and trans-differentiated neural progenitor cells (NPCs) from somatic cell source. However, the traditional method to study the NPC differentiation and its related function involves staining, and cell lysis, which can not materialized further for the clinical uses. In order to automatically, non-invasively, non-labelled analyze and cultivate cells, a system classifying NPCs under bright-field microscopic imaging is necessary. In this paper, we propose a novel recognition system based on convolutional neural networks, which could pre-process images and classify NPCs and non-NPCs. Experimental results prove that the proposed system provides a new tool for fundamental research in iPSCs and NPCs based generation medicine.
Echo state networks (ESNs) provide architecture and supervised learning principle for recurrent neural networks (RNNs). In this paper, we apply ESN to channel estimation in wireless Multiple-Input and Multiple-Output (MIMO). There is the multipath propagation environment between a transmitter and receiver. Thus the received signal undergoes phase shift, attenuation and time delay. In order to mitigate these random effects and decoding the transmitted signal at the reservoir, we present ESNs for learning nonlinear systems and realizing accurate channel estimation. We also design a teaching scheme to train the output weights of ESNs. The potential for engineering application is illustrated by channel estimation. Numerical results show that accuracy is improved by the number of reservoir units.
Energy efficiency and intrinsic safety are two critical challenges faced by traditional robots based on electro-mechanical systems. Bio-syncretic actuators may provide clues to overcome these challenges. Cardiomyocytes are potential biological motors that can be used for bio-syncretic robots. Current researches on bio-hybrid robots mainly focus on the realization of bio-actuators at micro/nano-scale, but lack of quantitative description and understanding of bio-actuation. In this paper, we present a dynamic mathematical model of single cardiomyocyte cell for its autonomous beating activity and we use it to model and explain the nonlinear group effect of multi-layer cardiomyocyte structure. Experiments validated the model and it is demonstrated that the nonlinear group effect of multi-layer cardiomyocyte structure is mainly caused by the effect of substrate. This work is a fundamental but meaningful for the development of the bio-syncretic robots.
Clinical identification and rating of the cerebral microbleeds (CMBs) are important in vascular diseases and dementia diagnosis. However, manual labeling is time-consuming with low reproducibility. In this paper, we present an automatic method via deep learning based 3D feature representation, which solves this detection problem with three steps: candidates localization with high sensitivity, feature representation, and precise classification for reducing false positives. Different from previous methods by exploiting low-level features, e.g., shape features and intensity values, we utilize the deep learning based high-level feature representation. Experimental results validate the efficacy of our approach, which outperforms other methods by a large margin with a high sensitivity while significantly reducing false positives per subject
Convolution operations have been widely used in many important application domains, such as deep learning and computer vision, in which convolution is always the most time-consuming part. High computational throughput and memory bandwidth make many-core architectures the promising targets to accelerate these applications. In this paper, we implement and optimize different convolution operations, including 1D convolution, 2D convolution and multi-channel 2D convolution executed in mini-batch mode, on both GPU and Intel MIC many-core architectures. We find out that the performance bottleneck of 1D and 2D convolutions is on registers rather than local memory or L1/L2 cache, and therefore, register tiling is used to improve the performance. In addition, we present a novel solution for multi-channel 2D convolution, in which convolution is conducted on images directly instead of being translated to matrix multiplication, and the data reuse of the algorithm is fully exploited. We further summarize the parameters of autotuning for multi-channel 2D convolution and prune the search space based on heuristics. The experimental results show that, for the large filter size, our solution gets up to 33% performance improvement over cuDNN-v2 and up to 28% over clBLAS-based implementation, on GTX TITAN and AMD W8000 respectively. On Intel MIC, our solution gets up to 25% of the theoretical peak performance.
Quadrotor is a strong coupling, under actuated complex system with multi inputs and multi outputs. In this paper, the quadrotor UAV model was presented at first. In order to control the position and attitude respectively, a nested loops control strategy was employed. The full control was divided into two parts, i.e. position control and attitude control. Both a PD controller and a fuzzy adaptive PD control er were designed. Finally, in order to give the comparison results, a quadrotor simulation system was set up in Matlab Simulink.
Inorder to avoide the obstacle objects when the unmaned watersurface vehicle (USV) navigating on the water surface, a coastline detected approach is presented in this paper. By using the video camera on robot boat, the riparian under the surface of the natural environment is detected so as for autonomous obstacle avoidance and navigation. The algorithm is based on the traditional LOG edge detection method and improving this algorithm by stretching gray scale of the second derivative. Then convolution and threshold by Otsu algorithm are used to segement the coastline. The simulation results show that this approach can denoise the influence of the surface disturbances and complex background affects. It is faster and more accurate than the traditional LOG algorithm, and it can also improve the riparian positioning accuracy. Through the real applying this algorithm can efficiently and real time work in USV system.
This paper presents a reconfiguration planning method for a mobile type modular reconfigurable robot system, which is composed of wheel-manipulator robots. The wheel-manipulator robots can either locomote autonomously as individual modules or assemble into various group configurations with different locomotion capabilities. Through reconfiguration, they are capable of adapting to different tasks or environments. Given a goal configuration, a reconfiguration is realized by the movement of the individual modules. The main difficulty of the reconfiguration planning problem is that the goals in the goal configuration for the respective modules are unknown, which are required for the motion planning of the modules. The proposed method is composed of three parts. Firstly, the transition states of the involved modules of a configuration are defined, based on which the reconfiguration process is decomposed into three steps. Secondly, the goals for the respective modules are determined by solving an assignment problem. Thirdly, the motions of the modules are generated, which take the kinematics of the robots into account and are collision-free. Simulation results demonstrate the feasibility and the efficiency of the method.
In this paper, we propose an unstructured road navigation system to achieve the visual navigation for tracked mobile robot. The environment information and unstructured road information are obtained through the understanding of sensor data. Then the robot can be automatically controlled to track along the path. We have two contributions. Firstly, we have improved the efficiency of the algorithm for detecting unstructured road and achieve the real-time requirements. We achieve this by down-sampling the pictures and making optimization of a local soft voting method which is used to search for road vanish points. Secondly, we propose the using of the velocities of two wheels to control the robot rather than using velocity and angular velocity, which is generally utilized in most motion control systems but is difficult to control in practice. The road regional center is regarded as the preview points to imitate artificial driving behavior and the velocities of two wheels are exported respectively. Then the robot is controlled to track the available path using fuzzy control technology. Simulation and experiment results validate the efficiency, accuracy and practicality of this proposed system.
Power line inspection is essential to the smooth running of the power grid. In the past, the power line inspection was mainly carried out manually, which means the liners had to inspect the power line in the field or watch the inspection video taken by UAVs or inspection robots. The manual inspection method is with disadvantages such as long time consumption and high manual labor cost. With the rapid growing of power grid, the demand for the power inspection has been continuously increased, but the manual inspection method can hardly meet the requirements for the power inspection due to its disadvantages. This paper presents a computer vision-based method for the broken spacer detection. The method is mainly implemented in three steps. First of all, the spacer is recognized in the region of interest. Secondly, the image morphology is used to extract the image feature. At last, we determine the broken spacer fault by the analysis of the connected domain in the image. Experimental results have successfully demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method.
The photovoltaic (PV) generation systems as environmentally friendly renewable energy sources are increasing. However, the power generation of solar has high uncertainty and intermittency and brings significant challenges to power system operators. The accurate forecasting of photovoltaic (PV) power production is good for both the grid and individual smart homes. In this paper, we propose a novel weather-based photovoltaic generation forecasting approach using extreme learning machine (ELM) for 1-day ahead hourly forecasting of PV power output. In the proposed approach, the weather conditions are divided into three types which are sunny day, cloudy day, and rainy day and training the PV power output forecasting models separately for those three weather types. In this paper, we take the PV output history data from the PV experiment system located in Shanghai for case study. The forecasting results show that the proposed model outperform the BP neural networks model in all three weather types.
Aiming at the target optimization problem in the laminar cooling process, we proposed a laminar cooling water optimization setting control method, integrating improved bacterial foraging optimization (BFO) algorithm and case -based reasoning (CBR) technology. We construct two layers structure of dynamic optimization to realize offline optimization and online reasoning. The simulation results with industrial operating data showed the effectiveness in searching optimized cooling water consumption in varying working condition. The proposed method has the ability to adjust the water consumption setting value in time and the strip coiling temperature is controlled in the target range.
The industry of robotics has achieved great success in recent decades as its application could be found widely in our daily life, especially for indoor robotics. Some important features for indoor mobile robot include, autonomous navigation with minimum human intervention and control of mobile robot from remote area. For autonomous navigation, techniques such as Simultaneous Localization and Mapping can be adopted. The operation of mobile robot from a remote area using a workstation could be realized by using Wi-fi. In this paper, the remote control of an indoor mobile robot from a workstation to perform autonomous navigation is demonstrated. By using a workstation, advantages such as ease of operation, minimum risk exposure to human could be achieved. However, it is important to ensure a smooth connection. In this paper, the parameters such as receive rate, bandwidth and frame per second needed for a smooth operation from the workstation is also presented.
Monitoring and fault diagnosis are crucial for industrial process. In this paper, a simple and efficient manifold learning method is used for process monitoring and fault diagnosis. Firstly, local neighbor relationship of process data is used for process modelling, which divides process data into the embedding space and residual space. Then, different statistics and confidence limits are computed, which can be used for monitoring. Finally, the contribution analysis based on manifold learning is used for fault diagnosis. When the fault variables are found, quality control can be introduced to improve production safety and quality stabilization in industrial process. The manifold learning method is applied for one practical foods industrial production process. The experiment results show the feasibility and efficiency of the manifold learning method for monitoring and fault diagnosis.
In semiconductor manufacturing, the throughout analysis and robot action sequence are crucial for multi-cluster tools scheduling problems. This paper studies a general robot scheduling problem for multi-cluster tools with the single-arm robot and buffer process modules. Firstly, the scheduling model with constraints of processing module and robots transport is addressed. Secondly, the lower bound of cycle time is theoretically proved. And based on decomposition idea, the heuristic scheduling method, which produces robot action sequence by virtue of random processing time and cycle time, is proposed. Finally, the superiority of the proposed method is proved simulation results.
Sludge volume index (SVI) can evaluate and reflect the aggregation of activated sludge sediment properties accurately. It is an important parameter to predict sludge hulking. Generally, if SVI value is too high, the description is sludge settling performance is poor. It will occur or has occurred sludge hulking. But SVI cannot he online measurement, offline assay data obtained for a long time or other issues. To solve this problem, this paper has applied soft -sensing technology for the sludge volume index that reflects sludge bulking, using rough set to reduce the instrumental variables then construct the soft sensing model with RBF neural network to complete the dataset of sludge volume index, and then, employed the grey Markov model to predict the dataset to collect the important information of sludge bulking in the quantitative respect, in order to achieve real-time prediction of sludge bulking.
In order to launch a soccer game between human and robots, one of the crucial problems for robots is to effectively identify human and their actions. In this paper, based on human skeleton tracking information from Kinect, GR (Gesture Recognition), FVGR (Front View Gait Recognition) and NNVGR (Non-Normative View Gait Recognition) are carried out to develop the HRI (Human Robot Interaction) systems for a middle size league soccer robot. This method is used to identify the human body language and obtain information of body movements, so that the HRI system can generate different command to control the movements of the middle size league soccer robot. The performances of the proposed HRI systems are verified by different experiments. The experimental results show that this method can quickly and safely identify human and their movements. This research can provide a practical solution for Mid-Sized League competition between human and robots in the future.
In this paper a whole-body control strategy is proposed for walking of humanoid robots. Its basic idea lies in the control of the centre of mass(CoM) with a ZMP regulation as well as the relative pose of the feet of the robot. A stable walking trajectory based on 3D linear inverted pendulum model (3D-LIPM) is planned for the study. Through the proposed study, it is shown that the proposed control strategy perfectly tracks the planned trajectory of CoM and adjusts the ZMP back to the stability area when the robot is out of balance. Simulations results are presented to show the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme.
This paper proposed an autonomous robot motion planner for industrial robots with a focus on vision-based stevedoring applications. The planning algorithm can be divided into two stages. The first stage generates initial geometric paths in the Cartesian space: with the 3D model of the environment and the picking and placing pose of the robot's wrist obtained by visual system, the planner finds a collision-free path using workspace cell decomposition. The second stage searches for a time-jerk optimal joints trajectories: the planner transforms the path nodes described in the Cartesian space into joints angels in the joints configuration space, then formulates and solves the optimization problem by means of cubic splines. The simulation experiments show the obvious improvement of our method with a contrast to several state-of-art algorithms in this field. And the grasping experiment verifies the practicability and effectiveness of the method on the basis of the embedded visual system and ABB120 type industrial robot.
In the past decade, gait rehabilitation robot has drawn comprehensive attention. Robots greatly reduce the workload of physical therapists and thus making rehabilitation sessions more effective and widely available. Various research efforts have been made in the field of robot-assisted rehabilitation. One of the key concerns of robotic assisted gait rehabilitation is gait planning and customization. In this paper, we first introduce a human gait measuring system based on binocular vision technique. Through the measuring system, gait data of healthy subjects under different walking speed are collected, which are used as the reference database for gait planning. On the basis of collected data, a method of gait planning and customization based on patients' physical characteristics is proposed. Finally, to validate the applicability of the generated gait patterns, the customized gait trajectories are implemented on a prototype of lower limbs rehabilitation robot. Experiment on healthy subject shows positive results with the gait trajectories generated by the proposed method.
This paper is concerned with the position/force control problem for constrained reconfigurable manipulator via dynamic model decomposition. Based on a nonlinear transformation, the dynamic model of the reconfigurable manipulator system is divided into the position subsystem and the force subsystem that are convenient to design the controllers respectively. In the position subsystem, an adaptive neural network is used to approximate the nonlinear term whose upper bound is unknown in different reconfigurable manipulators. And in the force subsystem, based on the computed torque method, another adaptive neural network is employed to compensate the model uncertainties. Then, on the basis of Lyapunov stability theorem, the state errors can converge to zero asymptotically. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme is demonstrated by the simulations of two 2-DOF constrained reconfigurable manipulators with different configurations. The superiorities of this scheme lie in that the control strategy can be used in reconfigurable manipulators with different configurations. Meanwhile, it is more convenient to be applied in practice due to the decomposed dynamics. In contrast to the previous works, the force tracking error can asymptotically converge to zero rather than tracking error bounded.
Tensegrity robots are novel deformable robots based on tensegrity structures. The 6-strut tensegrity robots (TR-6) are similar to spheres. This characteristic allows them to generate rolling gaits easily, but leads to the rolling down problem when they are on a slope. In this paper, as lowering the center of gravity is an efficient way to improve the stability of the TR-6 on a slope, a low-CG(center of gravity) configuration is generated by self-deformation. However, self-deformation may lead to unexpected rolling. To lower the position of the center of gravity and avoid rolling, a low-CG configuration realization method is proposed that contains two steps. Firstly, the stability of the undeformed configurations are analyzed and the most stable undeformed configuration is selected as the initial configuration. Secondly, the low-CG configuration is generated based on the most stable undeformed configuration by suitable deformation. Comparisons are taken between the undeformed configurations and the low-CG configuraions in ODE simulations, and the results show the stability of the TR-6 is increased by applying the low-CG configurations.
The presented work describes how to implement an autonomous navigation system on wheeled mobile robots based on Robot Operating System (ROS). ROS contains many reusable software stacks and we have analyzed location issues, map building and autonomous navigation packages in this work. With regard to our own designed robot, the hardware and software architectures are presented. Besides, robotic kinematics of motion has been discussed for the four-wheel differential drive mechanism of our robot. An inertial measurement unit is used to assist in providing a more accurate odometry model and precisely localizing robot itself within the world during the process of navigation. Experimental results carried out with a service robot are shown in this paper to demonstrate the performance of the designed system.
Cyber-physical system theory in recent years generates a great impact on modern industry. Nevertheless, traditional sensor network systems fail to meet requirements of CPS system due to its lack of real-time, synchronization and tolerance of hybrid-system qualities. In this article, a new data-collection prototype system has been thrown light upon which could meet such qualities to some extent. Hardware, software and algorithms concerning this topic shall be explained and experiment shall be made to testify those qualities.
In this paper, a novel critic-identifier-actor optimal control scheme is designed for discrete-time affine nonlinear systems with uncertainties. A neural identifier is established to learn the unknown control coefficient matrix for affine nonlinear system working together with an actor-critic-based scheme to solve the optimal control in online and forward-in-time manner without value or policy iterations. A critic network learns approximate value function at each step. Another actor network attempts to improve the current policy based on the approximate value function. The weights of all neural networks (NNs) are updated at each sampling instant. Lyapunov theory is utilized to prove the stability of the closed-loop system. A simulation example is provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the developed method.
After intensive research, heterogenous face recognition is still a challenging problem. The main difficulties are owing to the complex relationship between heterogenous face image spaces. The heterogeneity is always tightly coupled with other variations, which makes the relationship of heterogenous face images highly nonlinear. Many excellent methods have been proposed to model the nonlinear relationship, but they apt to overfit to the training set, due to limited samples. Inspired by the unsupervised algorithms in deep learning, this paper proposes a novel framework for heterogeneous face recognition. We first extract Gabor features at some localized facial points, and then use Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) to learn a shared representation locally to remove the heterogeneity around each facial point. Finally, the shared representations of local RBMs are connected together and processed by PCA. Near infrared (NIR) to visible (VIS) face recognition problem and two databases are selected to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. On CASIA HFB database, we obtain comparable results to state-of-the-art methods. On a more difficult database, CASIA NIR-VIS 2.0, we outperform other methods significantly.
An restricted Boltzmann machine learning algorithm were proposed in the two-lead heart beat classification problem. ECG classification is a complex pattern recognition problem. The unsupervised learning algorithm of restricted Boltzmann machine is ideal in mining the massive unlabelled ECG wave beats collected in the heart healthcare monitoring applications. A restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM) is a generative stochastic artificial neural network that can learn a probability distribution over its set of inputs. In this paper a deep belief network was constructed and the RBM based algorithm was used in the classification problem. Under the recommended twelve classes by the ANSI/AAMI EC57: 1998/(R)2008 standard as the waveform labels, the algorithm was evaluated on the two-lead ECG dataset of MIT-BIH and gets the performance with accuracy of 98.829%. The proposed algorithm performed well in the two-lead ECG classification problem, which could be generalized to multi-lead unsupervised ECG classification or detection problems.
Age estimation from facial images is an important problem in computer vision and pattern recognition. Typically the goal is to predict the chronological age of a person given his or her face picture. It is seldom to study a related problem, that is, how old does a person look like from the face photo? It is called apparent age estimation. A key difference between apparent age estimation and the traditional age estimation is that the age labels are annotated by human assessors rather than the real chronological age. The challenge for apparent age estimation is that there are not many face images available with annotated age labels. Further, the annotated age labels for each face photo may not be consistent among different assessors. We study the problem of apparent age estimation by addressing the issues from different aspects, such as how to utilize a large number of face images without apparent age labels to learn a face representation using the deep neural networks, how to tune the deep networks using a limited number of examples with apparent age labels, and how well the machine learning methods can perform to estimate apparent ages. The apparent age data is from the ChaLearn Looking At People (LAP) challenge 2015. Using the protocol and time frame given by the challenge competition, we have achieved an error of 0.294835 on the final evaluation, and our result has been ranked the 3rd place in this competition.
Cultural events are kinds of typical events closely related to history and nationality, which play an important role in cultural heritage through generations. However, automatically recognizing cultural events still remains a great challenge since it depends on understanding of complex image contents such as people, objects, and scene context. Therefore, it is intuitive to associate this task with other high-level vision problems, e.g., object detection, recognition, and scene understanding. In this paper, we address this problem by combining both ideas of object / scene contents mining and strong image representation via CNN into a whole framework. Specifically, for object / scene contents mining, we employ selective search to extract a batch of bottom-up region proposals, which are served as key object / scene candidates in each event image; while for representation via CNN, we investigate two state-of-the-art deep architectures, VGGNet and GoogLeNet, and adapt them to our task by performing domain-specific (i.e., event) fine-tuning on both global image and hierarchical region proposals. These two models can complementarily exploit feature hierarchies spatially, which simultaneously capture the global context and local evidences within the image. In our final submission for ChaLearn LAP Challenge ICCV 2015, nine kinds of features extracted from five different deep models were exploited and followed with two kinds of classifiers for decision level fusion. Our method achieves the best performance of mAP = 0.854 among all the participants in the track of cultural event recognition.
Event recognition from still images is one of the most important problems for image understanding. However, compared with object recognition and scene recognition, event recognition has received much less research attention in computer vision community. This paper addresses the problem of cultural event recognition in still images and focuses on applying deep learning methods on this problem. In particular, we utilize the successful architecture of Object-Scene Convolutional Neural Networks (OS-CNNs) to perform event recognition. OS-CNNs are composed of object nets and scene nets, which transfer the learned representations from the pre-trained models on large-scale object and scene recognition datasets, respectively. We propose four types of scenarios to explore OS-CNNs for event recognition by treating them as either "end-to-end event predictors" or "generic feature extractors". Our experimental results demonstrate that the global and local representations of OS-CNNs are complementary to each other. Finally, based on our investigation of OS-CNNs, we come up with a solution for the cultural event recognition track at the ICCV ChaLearn Looking at People (LAP) challenge 2015. Our team secures the third place at this challenge and our result is very close to the best performance.
Deep learning, in particular Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), has achieved promising results in face recognition recently. However, it remains an open question: why CNNs work well and how to design a 'good' architecture. Existing studies tend to focus on reporting CNN architectures that work well for face recognition rather than investigate the reason. In this work, we conduct an extensive evaluation of CNN-based face recognition systems (CNN-FRS) on a common ground to make our work easily reproducible. Specifically, we use public database LFW (Labeled Faces in the Wild) to train CNNs, unlike most existing CNNs trained on private databases. We propose three CNN architectures which are the first reported architectures trained using LFW data. This paper quantitatively compares the architectures of CNNs and evaluates the effect of different implementation choices. We identify several useful properties of CNN-FRS. For instance, the dimensionality of the learned features can be significantly reduced without adverse effect on face recognition accuracy. In addition, a traditional metric learning method exploiting CNN-learned features is evaluated. Experiments show two crucial factors to good CNN-FRS performance are the fusion of multiple CNNs and metric learning. For reproducibility, our source code and models will be made publicly available.
After intensive research, heterogenous face recognition is still a challenging problem. The main difficulties are owing to the complex relationship between heterogenous face image spaces. The heterogeneity is always tightly coupled with other variations, which makes the relationship of heterogenous face images highly nonlinear. Many excellent methods have been proposed to model the nonlinear relationship, but they apt to overfit to the training set, due to limited samples. Inspired by the unsupervised algorithms in deep learning, this paper proposes a novel framework for heterogeneous face recognition. We first extract Gabor features at some localized facial points, and then use Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) to learn a shared representation locally to remove the heterogeneity around each facial point. Finally, the shared representations of local RBMs are connected together and processed by PCA. Near infrared (NIR) to visible (VIS) face recognition problem and two databases are selected to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. On CASIA HFB database, we obtain comparable results to state-of-the-art methods. On a more difficult database, CASIA NIR-VIS 2.0, we outperform other methods significantly.
After intensive research, heterogenous face recognition is still a challenging problem. The main difficulties are owing to the complex relationship between heterogenous face image spaces. The heterogeneity is always tightly coupled with other variations, which makes the relationship of heterogenous face images highly nonlinear. Many excellent methods have been proposed to model the nonlinear relationship, but they apt to overfit to the training set, due to limited samples. Inspired by the unsupervised algorithms in deep learning, this paper proposes a novel framework for heterogeneous face recognition. We first extract Gabor features at some localized facial points, and then use Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) to learn a shared representation locally to remove the heterogeneity around each facial point. Finally, the shared representations of local RBMs are connected together and processed by PCA. Near infrared (NIR) to visible (VIS) face recognition problem and two databases are selected to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. On CASIA HFB database, we obtain comparable results to state-of-the-art methods. On a more difficult database, CASIA NIR-VIS 2.0, we outperform other methods significantly.
After intensive research, heterogenous face recognition is still a challenging problem. The main difficulties are owing to the complex relationship between heterogenous face image spaces. The heterogeneity is always tightly coupled with other variations, which makes the relationship of heterogenous face images highly nonlinear. Many excellent methods have been proposed to model the nonlinear relationship, but they apt to overfit to the training set, due to limited samples. Inspired by the unsupervised algorithms in deep learning, this paper proposes a novel framework for heterogeneous face recognition. We first extract Gabor features at some localized facial points, and then use Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) to learn a shared representation locally to remove the heterogeneity around each facial point. Finally, the shared representations of local RBMs are connected together and processed by PCA. Near infrared (NIR) to visible (VIS) face recognition problem and two databases are selected to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. On CASIA HFB database, we obtain comparable results to state-of-the-art methods. On a more difficult database, CASIA NIR-VIS 2.0, we outperform other methods significantly.
After intensive research, heterogenous face recognition is still a challenging problem. The main difficulties are owing to the complex relationship between heterogenous face image spaces. The heterogeneity is always tightly coupled with other variations, which makes the relationship of heterogenous face images highly nonlinear. Many excellent methods have been proposed to model the nonlinear relationship, but they apt to overfit to the training set, due to limited samples. Inspired by the unsupervised algorithms in deep learning, this paper proposes a novel framework for heterogeneous face recognition. We first extract Gabor features at some localized facial points, and then use Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) to learn a shared representation locally to remove the heterogeneity around each facial point. Finally, the shared representations of local RBMs are connected together and processed by PCA. Near infrared (NIR) to visible (VIS) face recognition problem and two databases are selected to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. On CASIA HFB database, we obtain comparable results to state-of-the-art methods. On a more difficult database, CASIA NIR-VIS 2.0, we outperform other methods significantly.
Almost all existing state-of-the-art pedestrian detection methods use combination of hand-crafted features, which cannot well handle the particular challenges in real-world situation. In this paper, we take advantage of Regions with Convolution Neural Networks features (R-CNN) to extract more robust pedestrian features for effective pedestrian detection in complicated environments. To further improve the performance: 1) we propose a Region Proposal Fusion algorithm to get effective region proposals since after careful observation, we found that the quality of region proposals is crucially important for detection performance. 2) we exploit a pedestrian detection expansion method based on image retrieval with color moment features due to R-CNN's requirements of large number of training samples to avoid overfitting. Consequently, the final average miss rate is greatly reduced to 23% in the INRIA pedestrian detection dataset, which is much (23%) lower than that of original HOG (46%).
This paper studies the problem of improving object recognition using the novel RGB-D data. To address the problem, a new convolutional Fisher Kernels (CFK) method is proposed to represent RGB-D objects powerfully yet efficiently. The core idea of our approach is to integrate the both advantages of the convolutional neural networks (CNN) and Fisher Kernel encoding (FK): CNN model is flexible to adapt to new data sources, but requires for large amounts of training data with significant computational resources for good generalization; In comparison, FK encoding is able to represent objects powerfully and efficiently with small training data, however, its success highly depends on the well-designed SIFT features in literature, which may not be suitable for the new depth data. CFK can be interpreted as a two-layer feature learning structure to bridge the two models. The first layer employs a single-layer CNN to learn low-level translationally invariant features for both RGB and depth data efficiently. The second layer aggregates the convolutional responses by FK encoding. Here 2D and 3D spatial pyramids are applied to further improve the Fisher vector representation of each modality. Experiments on RGB-D object recognition benchmarks demonstrate that our approach can achieve the state-of-the-art results.
The application of artificial intelligence has aided the development of many different fields. The most recognized applications are in science-tech related fields, but in fact, artificial intelligence has applications in some art related fields such as digital music, which is a combination of art and computer science. The passage discusses multiple application of artificial intelligence in digital music, analyzes the maturity of contemporary technologies, and makes a conclusion of those applications and its development prospect.
In this paper, an sEMG-driven musculoskeletal model of human shoulder and elbow joints is built based on time delay neural network (TDNN). Six principal muscles of the upper arm and forearm are included, and the experiment was conducted under isometric contractions with the aid of a planar haptic interface. Both force amplitude and direction were regulated continuously, and the experiment results proved the effectiveness and performance of this modeling method. The model was proved to have less overfitting risk than the most-used basic multilayer forward netwokrs, and the isometric model was proved to be still effective in estimation of slow movement cases.
Human activity recognition on smartphones is a relatively new area. Smartphones are equipped with a variety of sensors. Fusing the data of these sensors could enable applications to recognize a large number of activities. Realizing this goal is challenging, however. In this paper, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial gyroscope data, from which 561 features are generated in both time and frequency domain. Then the deep neural networks approach is employed to recognize 6 activities, comparing with other different learning methods, ie. Decision Trees methods, support vector machine and Naive Bayes methods. Experiment results show that the classification rate of deep neural network reaches 0.98, which has the highest accuracy.
Groundwater is an important part of water resources, which has a significant impact on ecosystem and human development. The dynamic simulation for groundwater level is simulating motion features by generalizing hydrogeological conditions to represent the actual status and forecast future trends that would be conducive to sustainable management and scientific use of groundwater resources. This paper summarized the analytic computation method for solving the problem of groundwater flow in company with describing the computer numerical simulation method with its application and epitomized the research progress of probability model that arose from the data can not meet the requirements of numerical simulation, besides analysed the common problems of groundwater level simulation and proposed the trend of the development of underground water level simulation to provide the reference for water resources management and utilization in arid areas.
Event recognition from still images is of great importance for image understanding. However, compared with event recognition in videos, there are much fewer research works on event recognition in images. This paper addresses the issue of event recognition from images and proposes an effective method with deep neural networks. Specifically, we design a new architecture, called Object-Scene Convolutional Neural Network (OS-CNN). This architecture is decomposed into object net and scene net, which extract useful information for event understanding from the perspective of objects and scene context, respectively. Meanwhile, we investigate different network architectures for OS CNN design, and adapt the deep (AlexNet) and very-deep (GoogLeNet) networks to the task of event recognition. Furthermore, we find that the deep and very-deep networks are complementary to each other. Finally, based on the proposed OS-CNN and comparative study of different network architectures, we come up with a solution offive-stream CNN for the track of cultural event recognition at the ChaLearn Looking at People (LAP) challenge 2015. Our method obtains the performance of 85.5% and ranks the 1st place in this challenge.
This paper describes our method and attempt on track 2 at the ChaLearn Looking at People (LAP) challenge 2015. Our approach utilizes Fisher vector and iDT features for action spotting, and improve its performance from two aspects: (i) We take account of interaction labels into the training process; (ii) By visualizing our results on validation set, we find that our previous method is weak in detecting action class 2, and improve it by introducing multiple thresholds. Moreover, we exploit deep neural networks to extract both appearance and motion representation for this task. However, our current deep network fails to yield better performance than our Fisher vector based approach and may need further exploration. For this reason, we submit the results obtained by our Fisher vector approach which achieves a Jaccard Index of 0.5385 and ranks the 1st place in track 2.
Nowadays supervised speech separation has drawn much attention and shown great promise in the meantime. While there has been a lot of success, existing algorithms perform the task only in one preselected representative domain. In this study, we propose to perform the task in two different time-frequency domains simultaneously and cooperatively, which can model the implicit correlations between different representations of the same speech separation task. Besides, many time-frequency (T-F) units are dominated by noise in low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) conditions, so more robust features are obtained by stacking features of original mixtures with that extracted from separated speech of each deep stacking network (DSN) block, which can be regarded as a denoised version of the original features. Quantitative experiments show that the proposed cross-domain cooperative deep stacking network (DSN-CDC) has enhanced modeling capability as well as generalization ability, which outperforms a previous algorithm based on standard deep neural networks.
Depression is a typical mood disorder, which affects people in mental and even physical problems. People who suffer depression always behave abnormal in visual behavior and the voice. In this paper, an audio visual based multimodal depression scale prediction system is proposed. Firstly, features are extracted from video and audio are fused in feature level to represent the audio visual behavior. Secondly, long short memory recurrent neural network (LSTM-RNN) is utilized to encode the dynamic temporal information of the abnormal audio visual behavior. Thirdly, emotion information is utilized by multi-task learning to boost the performance further. The proposed approach is evaluated on the Audio-Visual Emotion Challenge (AVEC2014) dataset. Experiments results show the dimensional emotion recognition helps to depression scale prediction.
Snake-like robot is more and more widespread attention in recent years, because of its Terrain adaptability and diverse forms of exercise. However, most existing snake-like robots are based on one or two degrees of freedom joints. This condition limits the motion diversity to some extent. In order to further enhance the speed and add the diversity of movement, the paper proposes a new 4-DOF joint, which consists of three rotating motor and a linear motor to achieve the three rotational degrees of freedom and a straight line freedom. It could help the robot adapt different environments. Besides the design of joints, we also analyze kinematics and dynamics equations of the robot. According to the simulation of the creeping movement of the snake-like robot with 4-DOF, we know that the robot can realize its ideal movement by utilizing the Serpenoid curve.
In recent years, the public has been paying ever greater attention to problems related to resilience, since resilience presents the recovery ability to increasing complexity and vulnerability of disturbances. Many researches have been performed to address resilience of networks disruptions in manufacturing. However, a systematic method to model and analyze maintenance scheduling in disturbed production line system is not well developed. This paper considers a resilience-driven maintenance scheduling methodology under maintenance resource constraints for a simplified production line system, which consists of an upstream production machine, a downstream production machine and an intermediate buffer. The machines with degradation quality states represented by multiple decreasing yield levels are modeled as semi-Markov decision processes. A hierarchical and policy-coupled methodology based on reinforcement learning is used to determine maintenance policy of the system. The numerical results show that the application of the methodology to the aforementioned system can minimize the total cost and converge to the approximate optimal solution.
In this paper, based on echo state network (ESN), a data-driven method is developed to solve the room classification problem of office buildings. The developed method is divided into two steps. Given the data of electricity consumption, which are classified into electricity consumption from sockets, lights and air-conditioners for a typical room in an office building, the first step is to reconstruct the behavior of electricity consumption in three types by using three ESNs. The second step is to classify the room into a certain category of office room, computer room, storage room and meeting room by establishing another ESN. The developed method fully utilizes the outstanding performance of ESN in chaotic time-series prediction and classification. Practical study on an office building illustrates the accuracy and effectiveness of the developed method.
We deal with Pursuit-evasion games with a high speed evader which has superiority in velocity over a group of heterogeneous pursuers in this paper. Heterogeneity in the group of pursuers is expressed as heterogeneity in the individual maximum speeds. We introduce Apollonius circles generated by every pursuer and the evader to analyse the criteria for a successful capture. Collective robots pursuit problem under unknown environment is investigated from the view of behavior-based control method, and Motor Schema-based reactive control architecture is adopted. Three basic behaviors using for pursuers are designed, namely Move to goal. Avoid_obatacle and Hunting, wherein hunting behavior is realized through a kind of reinforcement learning algorithm called Q-Learning. Pursuit of the evader is based on synthesized behavior, generated through summarizing the outputs of all behaviors weighed. Results of simulation experiments validate the effectiveness of our method.
Considering the nonlinear and non-stationary characteristics of fault vibration signal in the roller bearing system, an intelligent fault diagnosis model based on wavelet transform and stacked auto-encoder is proposed. This paper firstly uses the combination of digital wavelet frame (DWF) and nonlinear soft threshold method to de-noise fault vibration signal. Then stacked auto-encoder is taken to extract the fault signal feature, which is regarded as the input of BP network classifier. The output results of BP network classifier represent fault categories. In addition, neural network ensemble method is also adopted to greatly improve the recognition rate of fault diagnosis.
Many rehabilitation robots have been designed to alleviate the conflict between increasing number of post-stroke patients and shortage of therapists. Active training is the main feature of advanced rehabilitation robots, which has been proved to be more effective than simple passive movement training. This paper presents the implementation of active training on a 2-DOF upper-limb rehabilitation robot, which can assist the shoulder and elbow joint rehabilitation training of post-stroke patients. The controller is built based on impedance control, which can provide a compliant human-robot reaction. The implementation of active training is combined with a virtual reality game, and the average error between the actual and target reaction force is 1.41 +/- 0.79 N in the X axis, and 1.22 +/- 0.91 N in the Y axis.
For the dynamic obstacle avoidance problem in a unknown environment, a second-order fuzzy control strategy is proposed based on fuzzy method. Through the observation and analysis of the perception information of the delta speed and the delta deviation angle of a detected dynamic obstacle, the robot then make decision to efficiently avoid dynamical obstacles. Moreover, a two hierarchical control scheme is designed, where the upper level is to determine the deflection angle according to delta of speed and direction of dynamic obstacles, and the lower one is to derive the speed of a robot by employing the output of the upper level and the distance between the robot and dynamic obstacle. The simulations are demonstrated that the proposed scheme is effective and efficient.
It has been recognized by many researchers that accurate bus travel time prediction is critical for successful deployment of traffic signal priority (TSP) systems. Although there exist a lot of studies on travel time prediction for Advanced Traveler Information Systems (ATIS), this problem for TSP purpose is a little different and the amount of literature is limited. This paper proposes a deep learning based approach for continuous travel time prediction problem. Parameters of the deep network are fine-tuned following a layer-by-layer pre-training procedure on a dataset generated by traffic simulations. Variables that may affect continuous travel time are selected carefully. Experiments are conducted to validate the performance of the proposed model. The results indicate that the proposed model produces prediction with mean absolute error less than 4 seconds, which is accurate enough for TSP operations. This paper also reveals that, except for obvious factors like speed, travel distance and traffic density, the signal time when the prediction is made is also an important factor affecting travel time.
A method for predicting the crack width of reinforced concrete beam was proposed in this paper. Based on the test results, a three-layer back-propagation network is trained using the experimental data, among which 237 groups are used for training sample while the remaining 9 groups are used for testing sample. The crack widths of reinforced concrete flexural members were predicted by artificial neural network (ANN). Results show that the predicted results agree well with the test data. Thus, ANN method can estimate crack width of reinforced concrete flexural members in practice.
In this paper, a new 5-DOF arc welding robot is presented from aspects of mechanical design, control system and handheld welding teaching (HWT) method. Structure of this robot is inspired by selective compliance assembly robot arm (SCARA). With the aim to achieve HWT, magnet-clutches and encoders are adopted into the transmission chains which have large reduction ratio. In addition, a gravity balance mechanism is developed to reduce the load of operators. The processing of HWT operation is presented with optimal space arc interpolation algorithm. Two main design characteristics of this robot are low cost and easy operation features as compared to conventional 6-DOF industrial robots. Finally, experiments are discussed as from testing the welding performance and reported results validate the efficiency of the proposed solution.
In this paper, a novel Q-learning based policy iteration adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is developed to solve the optimal control problems for discrete-time nonlinear systems. The idea is to use a policy iteration ADP technique to construct the iterative control law which stabilizes the system and simultaneously minimizes the iterative Q function. Convergence property is analyzed to show that the iterative Q function is monotonically non-increasing and converges to the solution of the optimality equation. Finally, simulation results are presented to show the performance of the developed algorithm.
In modeling, prediction and control applications, the single-input-rule-modules (SIRMs) connected fuzzy inference method can efficiently tackle the rule explosion problem that conventional fuzzy systems always face. In this paper, to improve the learning performance of the SIRMs method, a neural structure is presented. Then, based on the least square method, a novel parameter learning algorithm is proposed for the optimization of the SIRMs connected neural-fuzzy system. Further, the proposed neural-fuzzy system is applied to the cooling and heating loads prediction which is a popular multi-variable problem in the research domain of intelligent buildings. Simulation and comparison results are also given to demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed method.
In this paper, we propose a two-stage CNN-based framework to learn color names from web images, aiming to predict color names for tiny image patches. To deal with the noisy labels widespread in web images, we propose a self-supervised CNN (SS-CNN) model in the first stage. The SS-CNN model is trained on image patches with their own color histograms as supervision information. Thus its outputs are able to reflect the color characteristics of images without the influence of the noisy labels. In the second stage, we finetune the SSCNN model to learn the mapping from image patches to color names, where the patch labels are inherited from its father images. Besides, sample selection is imported iteratively in turns with the finetuning process, which helps filtering out some noisy samples and further improves the model accuracy. Our model shows high representation ability to colors and achieves better performance of color naming compared with the state-of-the-art methods.
Object segmentation has constantly received much attention due to its fundamental role in scene understanding. Traditional methods formulate it as a structured prediction problem, represented by graphical models (GMs). However, most GMs have difficulties in balancing the effectiveness of context modeling and efficiency of model inference. In this paper, we model the contexts implicitly using the deep convolutional neural network (DCNN). Specifically, we reformulate object segmentation as a regression problem and train a deep network end-to-end to learn the nonlinear mapping from the image to the object mask. The large receptive field of the network incorporates wide contexts to update the network parameters, giving an implicit context model. Moreover, the deep architecture is favorable for modeling nonlinearity. The inference of our method is quite efficient, involving only a simple feed-forward pass. Extensive experiments on public datasets demonstrate the advantages of our method.
Scene text recognition plays an important role in many applications such as video indexing and house number localization in maps. Recently, some feature learning methods have been proposed to handle this problem, which often exploit deep architectures with no more than 5 layers and relatively large receptive fields. Meanwhile, to avoid model overfitting, they generally take advantage of large amount of additional data. Inspired by the great success of GoogleLeNet with a deeper network and VGG networks with smaller receptive fields in the ImageNet competition, in this paper, we adopt a much deeper network with up to 15 layers and smaller receptive fields (3 x 3) to learn better features for scene text recognition. Particularly, even without additional training data, our model can achieve better performance. Experiments on scene text datasets (ICDAR 2003, SVT, Chars74K) demonstrate that our method achieves the state-of-the-art performance on character classification and competitive performance on cropped word recognition.
Aircraft detection in satellite images is generally difficult due to the variations of aircraft type, pose, size and complex background. In this paper, we propose a new aircraft detection framework based on objectiveness detection techniques (e.g., BING) and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). The advantages are two folds. On one hand, we first introduce the CNN for aircraft detection, as CNN can learn rich features from the raw data automatically and has yielded a state-of-the-art performance in many object detection tasks. On the other hand, the use of candidate object regions proposed by BING achieves a high object detection rate and saves time simultaneously. Experimental results show that the proposed method is fast and effective to detect aircrafts in complex airport scenes. We also construct a dataset for aircraft detection obtained from Google Earth.
In this paper, a dynamic EMG-torque model of the elbow joint is developed based on ANN, and two novel test methods are proposed to validate its generalization performance. A time-delay neural network (TDNN) model is built and proved to have less risk of overfitting than the most-used multilayer feedfoward neural network (MFNN) model for dynamic EMG-torque modeling. Both EMG and kinematic features are included in the input of ANN, but the zero-EMG test shows that the trained ANN is part of the inverse joint dynamics rather than the EMG-torque model, and some random samples for ANN training are added to overcome this problem. The single-muscle test shows that an inappropriate choice of the motion type may cause the model to estimate wrong torque directions. After tuning and testing, the root mean square error (RMSE) across all subjects is 0.60+/-0.20 N.m.
Robot-assisted vascular interventions present promising trend for reducing the X-ray radiation to the surgeon during the operation. However, the control methods in the current vascular interventional robots only repeat the manipulation of the surgeon. While under certain circumstances, it is necessary to scale the manipulation of the surgeon to obtain a higher precision or a shorter manipulation time. A novel control method based on motion scaling for vascular interventional robot is proposed in this paper. The main idea of the method is to change the motion speed ratios between the master and the slave side. The motion scaling based control method is implemented in the vascular interventional robot we've developed before, so the operator can deliver the interventional devices under different motion scaling factors. Experiment studies verify the effectiveness of the motion scaling based control.
This paper presented a hierarchical fuzzy path following control scheme based on different fuzzy grain size in a class of unknown environment with static obstacles. By employing fine-grained fuzzy division and design of fuzzy rule table for the rotation angle and speed of a robot, a more accurate path following control was achieved, while more effective fuzzy obstacle avoidance was realized with coarse-grained fuzzy division strategy. The proposed controller was a two-leveled architecture in which the higher level was the decision-making of the sub-task switching of path following or obstacle avoidance, while the lower level was motion control of path following and fuzzy obstacle avoidance. Finally, the simulation experiments were carried out to demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
Interest in sustainable ecological protected area planning is increasing because of land uses conflicts and environmental pressure caused by rapid urban expansion in China. The optimal planning becomes a multi-objective non-deterministic polynomial-time (NP)-hard problem when searching for a quantitative solution and subjecting to spatial constraint. In this paper, a swarm intelligence algorithm, artificial bee colony (ABC), is introduced to solve the problem together with techniques of remote sensing (RS) and geographic information science (GIS). The optimal objective is to maximize both the ecological suitability and spatial compactness of selected protection area. Significant improvements have been made to extend the ABC algorithm applicable for ecological protected area planning in discrete domain. Then, the procedure of integrating RS, GIS, and ABC to solve the multi-objective spatial optimization problem is formed. And the approach is successfully applied to sustainable ecological protected area planning in Sanya region (a coastal tourist city in China). Effective outcomes have been obtained, which provides strong and firm support for decisions making.
Teaching robots manipulative skills through human demonstration is an important research problem and can be used to quickly program robots in future manufacturing industries. To understand human demonstration, manipulative actions need to be recognized. To improve the recognition performance, we use three kinds of sensors to capture the motion and force involved in the fine manipulative actions. In addition, by taking advantage of the action/object correlation, the recognition accuracy can be further improved. In the proposed approach, important features for individual actions are selected first. Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) are employed to characterize the temporal changes. Then, a Bayesian model is adopted to model the object/action dependency. Our approach was evaluated through experiments on assembly tasks. The experimental results show that the proposed approach can recognize manipulative actions effectively.
In clinics, customized archwires are demanded for lingual orthodontic treatment. However, only very experienced orthodontists can handle the manual appliance preparation. This pattern not only occupies lots of the orthodontist's labor time, but also can not ensure the accuracy of the appliances. Therefore, a robotic system was developed for automatic and accurate orthodontic archwire bending in our study. First, a method for customized archwire parameterization was developed. Second, an adaptive sampling-based bending planner with collision checker in time-varying environment was designed. Finally, a bending control strategy was used to eliminate the springback effect of the archwires and bending point shift during the bending process. A self-developed simulation platform based on Robot Operating System with MoveIt was used for preliminary validation of the proposed method. Physical experiments for multi-functional orthodontic bends on the robotic system were conducted as well. The results have shown that the developed robotic system using the proposed planning and control method was able to accomplish the automatic and accurate orthodontic archwire bending.
This paper propose a practical and effective method for identifying the complete inertia parameters of a space robotic system. The key is the following steps: equivalent single-body identification, and equivalent two-body identification. For the former, all joints are locked into a normal configuration, and the thrusters are used for orbital maneuvering. The object function is defined from the view of acceleration and velocity. For the latter, only one joint is unlocked and driven to move along the exciting trajectory under the free-floating mode. The linear and angular momentum equations are used to define the object function. Hence, the parameter identification problem is transformed into a non-linear optimization problem, and the PSO algorithm is used to determine the optimal parameters. By sequentially unlocking the 1st to nth joint, the mass properties of body 0 to n are completely identified. The proposed method is general and can be easily extended for many cases.
In this paper, we propose Multi-state Activation Functions (MSAFs) for Deep Neural Networks (DNNs). These multi-state functions do extra classification based on the 2-state Logistic function. Discussions on the MSAFs reveal that these activation functions have potentials for altering the parameter distribution of the DNN models, improving model performances and reducing model sizes. Meanwhile, an extension of the XOR problem indicates how neural networks with the multi-state functions facilitate classifying patterns. Furthermore, basing on running average mean-normalisation rules, we actualise a combination of mean-normalised optimisation with the MSAFs as well as Singular Value Decomposition (SVD). Experimental results on TIMIT reveal that acoustic models based on DNNs can be improved by applying the MSAFs. The models obtain better phone error rates when the Logistic function is replaced with the multi-state functions. Further experiments on large vocabulary continuous speech recognition tasks reveal that the MSAFs and mean-normalised Stochastic Gradient Descent (MN-SGD) bring better recognition performances for DNNs in comparison with the conventional Logistic function and SGD learning method. Beyond this, the combination of the MSAFs, the SVD method and MN-SGD shrinks the parameter scales of DNNs to 44% approximately, leading to considerable increasing on decoding speed and decreasing on model sizes without any loss of recognition performances.
This paper describes a progress of the previous study on the generalized constraint neural networks (GCNN). The GCNN model aims to utilize any type of priors in an explicate form so that the model can achieve improved performance and better transparency. A specific type of priors, that is, equality function constraints, is investigated in this work. When the existing approaches impose the constrains in a discretized means on the given function, our approach, called GCNN-EF, is able to satisfy the constrain perfectly and completely on the equation. We realize GCNN-EF by a weighted combination of the output of the conventional radial basis function neural network (RBFNN) and the output expressed by the constraints. Numerical studies are conducted on three synthetic data sets in comparing with other existing approaches. Simulation results demonstrate the benefit and efficiency using GCNN-EF.
Early stages of the human visual system consist of retinal cones, retinal ganglion cells(RGC), lateral geniculate nucleus(LGN) and V1. Modeling early visual stages is conducive to reveal the mechanism of visual signal preprocessing and representation inside brain, as well as settle challenges artificial intelligence confronts. However, a majority of previous work often models RGC/LGN or V1 separately, seldom modeling them together hierarchically. In order to be consistent with the biological results, we propose HEVS (a Hierarchical computational model for Early stages of the Visual System), a feedforward neural network composed of three layers, which represent receptor neurons, RGC/LGN and V1 successively. Exactly as the visual system, the proposed locally connected model is derived in the unsupervised scenario on natural images and trained in the bottom-up order. In order to learn the two connection weights among three layers, we formulate two optimization problems based on the reconstruction error and sparse learning. Unlike traditional models on RGC/LGN, we perform weighted similarity measuring as a regular term to simulate the strong correlations among nearby neuron spikes in the same stage. Different from existing researches on modeling V1 neurons from image pixels directly, we transmit the signals represented by the ganglion cells in the second layer to the V1 neurons in the third layer. Moreover, solutions to these objectives are provided as well. Experimental results demonstrate that the characteristics of HEVS are consistent with those of the corresponding biological stages. The results further verify the performance of HEVS on dealing with the de-blurring and de-noising tasks.
A growing number of noise reduction algorithms based on supervised learning have begun to emerge in recent years and show great promise. In this study, we focus on the problem of speech denoising at very low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) conditions using artificial neural networks. The overall objective is to increase speech intelligibility in the presence of noise. Inspired by multi task learning (MTL), a novel framework based on deep stacking network (DSN) is proposed to do speech denoising at three different time-frequency scales simultaneously and collaboratively. Experiment results show that our algorithm outperforms a state-of-the-art method that is based on traditional deep neural network (DNN).
This paper combines an efficient reinforcement learning algorithm named Multisamples in Each Cell (MEC) with a building thermal comfort control problem. It implements the efficient exploration rule and makes high use of observed samples. A grid is utilized to partition the continuous state into cells that are used to store samples. A near-upper Q function is obtained based on the samples in each cell. The value iteration technique is designed to derive the near optimal control policy. The algorithm can efficiently balance exploration and exploitation. The entire implementation process needs no model of systems. The thermal comfort criterion, predicted mean vote, is introduced to evaluate zone thermal comfort status. A two story, multi-zone small office building equipped with a variable air volume direct expansion cooling system is built in EnergyPlus to establish an EnergyPlus-MATLAB co-simulation platform. A MEC thermal comfort control simulation is implemented to validate the high performance property compared with Q-learning.
In this paper, we develop a novel approximate policy iteration reinforcement learning algorithm with unsupervised feature learning based on manifold regularization. The proposed algorithm can automatically learn data-driven smooth basis representations for value function approximation, which can preserve the intrinsic geometry of the state space of Markov decision processes. Moreover, it can provide a direct basis extension for new samples in both policy learning and policy control processes. We evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed algorithm on the inverted pendulum task. Simulation results show that this algorithm can learn smooth basis representations and excellent control policies.
sEMG (surface electromyography) signals have been used as human-machine interface to control robots or prostheses in recent years. sEMG-based torque estimation is a widely research methodology to obtain human motion intention. Most researches focus on improving the accuracy of sEMGtorque models, which often makes them complicated and confined in the laboratory research. However, an accurate estimation of muscle torque could be unnecessary to perform the robot-assisted rehabilitation training. This paper proposes a practical method to estimate the net muscle torques of lower limbs using sEMG, which can be used to implement a real-time coordinated active training with iLeg a horizontal exoskeleton for lower limb rehabilitation developed at our laboratory. Two three-layer back propagation (BP) neural networks are built to estimate the net muscle torques at hip and knee joints respectively. Experimental results show that the well-trained neural networks estimate the user's motion intention in real-time, and can assist the user to perform an active training with iLeg.
Speech production knowledge has been used to enhance the phonetic representation and the performance of automatic speech recognition (ASR) systems successfully. Representations of speech production make simple explanations for many phenomena observed in speech. These phenomena can not be easily analyzed from either acoustic signal or phonetic transcription alone. One of the most important aspects of speech production knowledge is the use of articulatory knowledge, which describes the smooth and continuous movements in the vocal tract. In this paper, we present a new articulatory model to provide available information for rescoring the speech recognition lattice hypothesis. The articulatory model consists of a feature front-end, which computes a voicing feature based on a spectral harmonics correlation (SHC) function, and a back-end based on the combination of deep neural networks (DNNs) and hidden Markov models (HMMs). The voicing features are incorporated with standard Mel frequency cepstral coefficients (MFCCs) using heteroscedastic linear discriminant analysis (HLDA) to compensate the speech recognition accuracy rates. Moreover, the advantages of two different models are taken into account by the algorithm, which retains deep learning properties of DNNs, while modeling the articulatory context powerfully through HMMs. Mandarin speech recognition experiments show the proposed method achieves significant improvements in speech recognition performance over the system using MFCCs alone.
This paper presents the design and simulation results of a silicon cochlea system that has closely similar behavior as the real cochlea. A cochlea filter-bank based on the improved three-stage filter cascade structure is used to model the frequency decomposition function of the basilar membrane; a filter tuning block is designed to model the adaptive response of the cochlea; besides, an asynchronous event-triggered spike codec is employed as the system interface with bank-end spiking neural networks. As shown in the simulation results, the system has biologically faithful frequency response, impulse response, and active adaptation behavior; also the system outputs multiple band-pass channels of spikes from which the original sound input can be recovered. The proposed silicon cochlea is feasible for analog VLSI implementation so that it not only emulates the way that sounds are preprocessed in human ears but also is able match the compact physical size of a real cochlea.
Policy evaluation has long been one of the core issues of the online reinforcement learning, especially in the continuous state domain. In this paper, the issue is addressed by employing Gaussian processes to represent the action value function from the probability perspective. By modeling the return as a stochastic variable, the action value function can sequentially update according to observed variables such as state and reward by Bayesian inference during the policy evaluation. The update rule shows that it is a temporal difference learning method with the learning rate determined by the uncertainty of a collected sample. Incorporating the policy evaluation method with the E-greedy action selection method, we propose an online reinforcement learning algorithm referred as to Bayesian-SARSA. It is tested on some benchmark problems and the empirical results verifies its effectiveness.
Recently, DNNs have achieved great improvement for acoustic modeling in speech recognition tasks. However, it is difficult to train the models well when the depth grows. One main reason is that when training DNNs with traditional sigmoid units, the derivatives damp sharply while back-propagating between layers, which restrict the depth of model especially with insufficient training data. To deal with this problem, some unbounded activation functions have been proposed to preserve sufficient gradients, including ReLU and softplus. Compared with ReLU, the smoothing and nonzero properties of the in gradient makes softplus-based DNNs perform better in both stabilization and performance. However, softplus-based DNNs have been rarely exploited for the phoneme recognition task. In this paper, we explore the use of softplus units for DNNs in acoustic modeling for context-independent phoneme recognition tasks. The revised RBM pre-training and dropout strategy are also applied to improve the performance of softplus units. Experiments show that, the DNNs with softplus units get significantly performance improvement and uses less epochs to get convergence compared to the DNNs trained with standard sigmoid units and ReLUs.
Learning representations from massive unlabeled data is a hot topic for high-level tasks in many applications. The recent great improvements on benchmark data sets, which are achieved by increasingly complex unsupervised learning methods and deep learning models with lots of parameters, usually require many tedious tricks and much expertise to tune. However, filters learned by these complex architectures are quite similar to standard hand-crafted features visually, and training the deep models costs quite long time to fine-tune their weights. In this paper, Extreme Learning Machine-Autoencoder (ELM-AE) is employed as the learning unit to learn local receptive fields at each layer, and the lower layer responses are transferred to the last layer (trans-layer) to form a more complete representation to retain more information. In addition, some beneficial methods in deep learning architectures such as local contrast normalization and whitening are added to the proposed hierarchical Extreme Learning Machine networks to further boost the performance. The obtained trans-layer representations are followed by block histograms with binary hashing to learn translation and rotation invariant representations, which are utilized to do high-level tasks such as recognition and detection. Compared to traditional deep learning methods, the proposed trans-layer representation method with ELM-AE based learning of local receptive filters has much faster learning speed and is validated in several typical experiments, such as digit recognition on MNIST and MNIST variations, object recognition on Caltech 101. State-of-the-art performances are achieved on both CaItech 101 15 samples per class task and 4 of 6 MNIST variations data sets, and highly impressive results are obtained on MNIST data set and other tasks.
This paper is concerned with stability analysis of multiple equilibria for recurrent neural networks. A new type of activation function, namely, discontinuous Mexican-hat-type activation function, is proposed for recurrent neural networks. Then with the aid of the fixed point theorem, some sufficient conditions for coexistent multiple equilibria are obtained to guarantee that such n-neuron recurrent neural networks can have at least 4(n) equilibria. In view of the theory of strict diagonal dominance matrix, further stability analysis reveals that 3(n) equilibria are locally exponentially stable. The new results considerably improve the existing multistability results in the literature.
Nonlinear time-delayed multi-agent systems with connectivity preservation are investigated in this paper. For each agent, the distributed controller is divided into five different parts which are designed to meet the requirements of the nonlinear time-delayed multi-agent systems, such as preserving connectivity, learning the unknown dynamics, eliminating time delays and reaching consensus. In addition, a sigma-function technique is utilized to avoid the singularity in the developed distributed controller. Finally, simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the developed control protocol.
In view of the complexity of the electronic control system of adaptive optics, combining with fault tree analysis and expert system, we design an expert system on fault diagnosis for electronic control system of adaptive optics based on Fault Tree. After analysis of electric control system of AO, fault tree can be established. The expert system is the extensive application of the fault tree. The system uses forward inference method to diagnose failure of system. In addition to traditional expert systems, point of failure was set to obtain real-time fault information. Then the information was sent to diagnosis expert systems to get the online function of diagnosis of system. The system highly improved the stability of AO system.
Robot calibration is to improve the accuracy of the robot model so as to achieve better positioning accuracy within the robot work cell. Model based calibration approaches are in general limited to compensating for geometric errors and are unable to compensate for error sources that do not fit within the proposed robot model. In order to compensate for the unmodeled error sources, a Radial Basis Function (RBF) Neural Network (NN) augmented robot model is proposed together with a two stage calibration process for training the NN. A simulation and an experimental study are conducted to verify the effectiveness of the proposed solution.
Recently, both academia and industry are moving their research attention to the fifth-generation (5G) wireless networks-the next new era of wireless networks. The wireless full-duplex transmission, as one of promising candidate techniques for 5G, can significantly boost the spectrum efficiency of the wireless networks, thus providing a powerful thrust to optimize the quality-of-service (QoS) performances for the wireless networks. However, due to the heterogeneity caused by different types of simultaneous traffics over the wireless fullduplex link, supporting QoS guarantees for wireless full-duplex networks imposes the new challenges that we need to provide heterogeneous QoS guarantees for different types of traffics over the same link simultaneously. To overcome the aforementioned problems, in this paper we propose the heterogeneous statistical QoS provisioning framework for bidirectional transmission based wireless full-duplex networks. In particular, we formulate the optimization problems to maximize the system throughput subject to heterogeneous statistical delay-bound QoS requirements. Then, we convert the resulted non-convex optimization problem into an equivalent convex optimization problem, solving which we can derive the optimal QoS-driven power allocation scheme to maximize the system throughput while guaranteeing the heterogeneous statistical delay-bound QoS requirements. The extensive simulation results obtained show that our proposed QoS-driven power allocation scheme for heterogeneous statistical delaybound QoS requirements can achieve larger aggregate system throughput than the scheme for the homogeneous statistical delay-bound QoS requirement over 5G mobile wireless fullduplex networks.
A novel scheme for diagnosing sensor failures in a flight control system is presented. In the proposed scheme, a set of self-organizing fuzzy systems named as SAFISs are applied as the online approximators for recognizing the sensor outputs in order to determine the failure detection, identification and accommodation (FDIA). SAFIS is an online learning fuzzy system with concurrent structure and parameter learning. The rules of the SAFIS are added or deleted based on the input data without predefining them by trial and error. The efficiency of the proposed scheme is demonstrated by simulation examples where soft failures in the angular rate gyros are successfully diagnosed.
Leaf is one of the most important organs of plant and often used as one of the basic characters in plant classification. The developmental condition of leaf can provide us with lots of critical information, such as the plant's health condition, the prospection of crop yield and so on. Leaf image processing by computer has been widely used for the extraction and dissection of leaf images in relevant researches. Image processing of leaf also offers an effective platform for plant classification and growth observation. A basic problem of leaf image processing is detecting and dislodging the petiole from the whole leaf image. Here this paper presents an algorithm which combines the dual-channel pulse coupled neural network (PCNN) model and HSI color space for leaf petiole detection. Totally 169 sorts of leaf images are tested by the proposed algorithm. The experimental results show that our method has potential availability in reducing mis-evaluation and increasing application scale as a tool in relative study.
In this paper, we propose a novel deep learning framework for object classification called negative-supervised cascaded deep learning. There are two hierarchies in our cascaded method: the first one is a convolutional neural network trained on positive-only samples, which is used to select supervisory samples from a negative library. The second one is inherited from the trained first CNN. It is trained on positive and negative samples, which are selected from domain related database by utilizing negative-supervised mechanism. Experiments are applied this idea to traffic sign classification using two classic convolutional neural networks, LeNet-5 and AlexNet as baselines. Classification rates improved by 0.7% and 1.1% with LeNet-5 and AlexNet respectively, which demonstrates the efficiency and superiority of our proposed framework.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have exhibited great potential in the field of image classification in the past few years. In this paper, we present a novel strategy named cross-level to improve the existing CNNs' architecture in which different levels of feature representation in a network are merely connected in series. The basic idea of crosslevel is to establish a convolutional layer between two nonadjacent levels, aiming to learn more sufficient feature representations. The proposed cross-level strategy can be naturally combined into a CNN without any change on its original architecture, which makes this strategy very practical and convenient. Three popular CNNs for image classification are employed to illustrate its implementation in detail. Experimental results on the dataset adopted by the ImageNet Large-Scale Visual Recognition Challenge (ILSVRC) verify the effectiveness of the proposed cross-level strategy on image classification. Furthermore, a new CNN with cross-level architecture is introduced in this paper to demonstrate the value of the proposed strategy in the future CNN design.
Lake hydrological simulations using physically based models are cumbersome due to extensive data and computational requirements. Despite an abundance of previous modeling investigations, realtime simulation tools for large lake systems subjected to multiple stressors are lacking. The back propagation neural network (BPNN) is applied as a first attempt to simulate the water-level variations of a large lake, exemplified by the Poyang Lake (China) case study. The BPNN investigation extends previous modeling efforts by considering the Yangtze River effect and evaluating the influence of the Yangtze River on the lake water levels. Results indicate that the effects of both the lake catchment and the Yangtze River are required to produce reasonable BPNN calibration statistics. Modeling results suggest that the Yangtze River plays a significant role in modifying the lake water-level changes. Comparison of BPNN models to a 2D hydrodynamic model (MIKE 21) shows that comparable accuracies can be obtained from both modeling approaches. This implies that the BPNN approach is well suited to long-term predictions of the water-level responses of Poyang Lake. The findings of this work demonstrate that BPNN can be used as a valuable and computationally efficient tool for future water resource planning and management of the Poyang Lake.
Remote sensing technique are great used to assess and monitor water quality. An efficient and comprehensive method in monitoring water quality is of great demand to prevent water pollution and to mitigate the adverse impact on the livestock and crops caused by polluted water. This study focused on a typical water area, where eutrophication is the main problem, and thus, the total nitrogen was chosen as an important parameter for this study. The research contains two parts. The first part is the methodology development, an algorithms was proposed to inverse the total nitrogen (TN) concentrations from the field imagery acquisition. The squared correlation coefficient between the inversion values and measured values was 0.815. The second part is the deduction of water quality parameter (TN) from upstream to downstream. An improved hybrid model of Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) model and Radial basis function neural network (RBF-NN) was developed to simulate and forecast variation trend of the water quality parameter. We evaluated our method using data sets from satellite. Our method achieved the competing predicting performance in comparison with the state-of-the-art method on missing data completion and data predicting. Generally, the evaluation results indicated that the developed methods were successfully applied in forecasting the water quality parameters and filling in missing data which cannot be inversed in space by satellite images due to the cloud and mist interference, and were of promising accuracy.
Multi-granularity thinking, computation and problem solving are effective approaches for human being to deal with complex and difficult problems. Deep learning, as a successful example model of multi-granularity computation, has made significant progress in the fields of face recognition, image automatic labeling, speech recognition, and so on. Its idea can be generalized as a model of solving problems by joint computing on multi-granular information/knowledge representation (MGrIKR) in the perspective of granular computing (GrC). This paper introduces our research on constructing MGrIKR from original datasets and its application in big data processing. Firstly, we have a survey about the study of the multi-granular computing (MGrC), including the four major theoretical models (rough sets, fuzzy sets, quotient space, and cloud model) for MGrC. Then we introduce the five representative methods for constructing MGrIKR based on rough sets, computing with words(CW), fuzzy quotient space based on information entropy, adaptive Gaussian cloud transformation (A-GCT), and multi-granularity clustering based on density peaks, respectively. At last we present an MGrC based big data processing framework, in which MGrIKR is built and taken as the input of other machine learning and data mining algorithms.
Event causality is indispensable for knowledge-driven intelligent systems. In this paper, we propose a supervised method of extracting event causalities such as forest is cut down. forest is destroyed from web text. While relation identification using lexico-syntactic patterns (LSPs) is not novel, it is still challenging to extract the event expressions with necessary arguments from identified causality mentions. To address this issue, our method divides event-pair extraction into two phases: event boundary identification and missing argument identification. In the first phase, we propose a Naive Baysian probability method to identify the boundary of causal events, and extract the corresponding text fragments as event expressions. Secondly, we learn a multi-class decision tree (LADTree) to identify the missing argument for each incomplete event. Experimental results showed the good effectiveness of our approach on a large-scale open corpus.
Using the posts of Tianya Forum as the data source and adopting the societal risk indicators from socio psychology, we conduct document-level multiple societal risk classification of BBS posts. Two kinds of models are applied to generate the representations of posts respectively: Bag-of-Words focuses on extracting the occurrence information of words in posts, and a deep learning model as Post Vector is designed to capture the semantics and word order of posts. Based on the different post representations, two types of support vector machine (SVM) classifiers are developed and compared in the societal risk classification of the posts. Furthermore, as the complementary information contained in the two different post representations, several SVM ensemble methods at the decision score level of the two SVM classifiers are proposed to improve the performance of societal risk classification. The experimental results reveal that the SVM ensemble method achieves better results in document-level societal risk classification than SVM based on single representation.
Flood is one of natural disasters with the worst loss in the world. It needs to assess flood disaster risk so that we can reduce the loss of flood disaster. Disaster management practical work needs the dynamic risk results of building. Rainstorm flood disaster system is a typical complex system. From the view of complex system theory, flood disaster risk is the interaction result of hazard effect objects, rainstorm flood hazard factors, and hazard environments. Agent-based modeling (ABM) is an important tool for complex system modeling. Rainstorm-flood building risk dynamic assessment method (RFBRDAM) was proposed using ABM in this paper. The interior structures and procedures of different agents in proposed meth had been designed. On the Netlogo platform, the proposed method was implemented to assess the building risk changes of the rainstorm flood disaster in the Huaihe River Basin using Agent-based simulation (ABS). The results indicated that the proposed method can dynamically assess building risk of the whole process for the rainstorm flood disaster. The results of this paper can provide one new approach for flood disaster building risk dynamic assessment and flood disaster management.
This paper proposes a fuzzy PID control method for deburring industrial robots. The adaptive fuzzy PID controller relates to the trajectory and joint angular parameters of the end-effector on a robot. The PID controller parameters update online at each sampling time to guarantee trajectory accuracy of the end-effector. The simulation of the fuzzy PID control is provided based on the 6-DOF deburring industrial robot. Experimental results demonstrate the efficiency of the fuzzy PID control method.
Identification and detection of dendritic spines in neuron images are of high interest in diagnosis and treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders (e.g., Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's diseases, and autism). In this paper, we have proposed a novel automatic approach using wavelet-based conditional symmetric analysis and regularized morphological shared-weight neural networks (RMSNN) for dendritic spine identification involving the following steps: backbone extraction, localization of dendritic spines, and classification. First, a new algorithm based on wavelet transform and conditional symmetric analysis has been developed to extract backbone and locate the dendrite boundary. Then, the RMSNN has been proposed to classify the spines into three predefined categories (mushroom, thin, and stubby). We have compared our proposed approach against the existing methods. The experimental result demonstrates that the proposed approach can accurately locate the dendrite and accurately classify the spines into three categories with the accuracy of 99.1% for "mushroom" spines, 97.6% for "stubby" spines, and 98.6% for "thin" spines.
Kinematic analysis is a significant method when planning the trajectory of robotic manipulators. The main idea behind kinematic analysis is to study the motion of the robot based on the geometrical relationship of the robotic links and their joints, such as the Denavit-Hartenberg parameters. Given the continuous nature of kinematic analysis and the shortcoming of the traditional verification methods, we propose to use high-order-logic theorem proving for conducting formal kinematic analysis. Based on the screw theory in HOL4, which is newly developed by our research institute, we utilize the geometrical theory of HOL4 to develop formal reasoning support for the kinematic analysis of a robotic manipulator. To illustrate the usefulness of our fundamental formalization, we present the formal kinematic analysis of a general 6R manipulator.
The algorithm for 3D reconstruction of tree-crown is presented with the UAV aerial images from a mountainous area in China. Considering the fact that the aerial images consist of little tree-crown texture and contour information, a feature area extraction method is proposed based on watershed segmentation, and the local area correlation coefficient is calculated to match the feature areas, in order to fully extract the characteristics that can reflect the structure of tree-crown. Then, the depth of feature points is calculated using the stereo vision theory. Finally, the L-system theory is applied to construct the 3D model of tree. The experiments are conducted with the tree-crown images from UAV aerial images manually. The experiment result showed that the method proposed in this paper can fully extract and match the feature points of tree-crown that can reconstruct the 3D model of the tree-crown correctly.
To figure out a local path planning for mobile robot during its autonomous navigation indoors, the paper presents a behavioral fusion path planning on the basis of fuzzy logic, in which positioning method of robot is based on RFID technology. Through using twenty-four ultrasonic sensors to collect information in the external environment, it integrates behavioral control with fuzzy control to create a path planner made up of Goal Seeker, Obstacle Avoider, Obstacle Following Behavior Controller, Behavior Weighting Controller, and finally brings up a new fusion behavioral algorithm, whose validity and feasibility are confirmed by tests in its software emulation platform and physical robot system.
Terahertz (THz) imaging was employed to develop a novel method for discriminating wheat of varying states of moldiness. Spectral data, in the range of 0.2-1.6 THz, were extracted from regions of interest (ROIs) in the THz images. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to evaluate the spectral data and determine the cluster trend. Six optimal frequencies were selected by implementing PCA directly for each image's ROI. Classification models for moldy wheat identification were established using the support vector machine (SVM) method, a partial least-squares regression analysis, and the back propagation neural network method. The models developed from these methods were based on the full and optimal frequencies, using the top three principal components as input variables. The PCA-SVM method achieved a prediction accuracy of over 95%, and was implemented at every pixel in the images to visually demonstrate the moldy wheat classification method. Our results indicate that THz imaging combined with chemometric algorithms is efficient and practical for the discrimination of moldy wheat.
With the development of the ubiquitous computing and large-scale information processing systems, the demand for lightweight block ciphers which is suitable for resource constrained computing devices is increasing. Hence, the methodology for design and analysis of block ciphers is becoming more important. In this paper, we use the Mixed-Integer Linear Programming (MILP) based tools for automatic differential cryptanalysis in a clever way to find improved single-key and related-key differential characteristics for DESL (a lightweight variant of the well known Data Encryption Standard), and obtain tighter security bound for LBlock-s (a core component of an lightweight authenticated encryption algorithm submitted to the international competition for authenticated encryption -CAESAR) against related-key differential attack. To be more specific, in searching for improved characteristics, we restrict the differential patterns allowed in the first and last rounds of the characteristics in the feasible region of an MILP problem by imposing different constraints than other rounds, and we partition the differential patterns of the DESL S-box into different sets with 2-bit more information associated with each pattern according to their probabilities. In addition, we show how to use the Gurobi optimizer combined with a known good characteristic to speed up the characteristic searching and bound proving process. Using these techniques, we managed to find the currently known best 9-round related-key differential characteristic for DESL, and the first published nontrivial related-key and single-key differential characteristics covering 10 rounds of DESL. Also, we obtain the currently known tightest security bound for LBlock-s against related-key differential attack. These techniques should be useful in analysis and design of other lightweight block ciphers.
It is a challenge to obtain accurate result in remote sensing images classification, which is affected by many factors. In this paper, aiming at correctly identifying land use types reflected in remote sensing images, support vector machine, maximum likelihood classifier, backpropagation neural network, fuzzy c-means, and minimum distance classifier were combined to construct three multiple classifier systems (MCSs). Two MCSs were implemented, namely, comparative major voting (CMV) and Bayesian average (BA). One method called WA-AHP was proposed, which introduced analytic hierarchy process into MCS. Classification results of base classifiers and MCSs were compared with the ground truth map. Accuracy indicators were computed and receiver operating characteristic curves were illustrated, so as to evaluate the performance of MCSs. Experimental results show that employing MCSs can increase classification accuracy significantly, compared with base classifiers. From the accuracy evaluation result and visual check, the best MCS is WA-AHP with overall accuracy of 94.2%, which overmatches BA and rivals CMV in this paper. The producer's accuracy of each land use type proves the good performance of WA-AHP. Therefore, we can draw the conclusion that MCS is superior to base classifiers in remote sensing image classification, and WA-AHP is an efficient MCS.
Unbalanced uptake of Omega 6/Omega 3 (omega-6/omega-3) ratios could increase chronic disease occurrences, such as inflammation, atherosclerosis, or tumor proliferation, and methylation methods for measuring the ruminal microbiome fatty acid (FA) composition/distribution play a vital role in discovering the contribution of food components to ruminant products (e.g., meat and milk) when pursuing a healthy diet. Hansch's models based on Linear Free Energy Relationships (LFERs) using physicochemical parameters, such as partition coefficients, molar refractivity, and polarizability, as input variables (V-k) are advocated. In this work, a new combined experimental and theoretical strategy was proposed to study the effect of omega-6/omega-3 ratios, FA chemical structure, and other factors over FA distribution networks in the ruminal microbiome. In step 1, experiments were carried out to measure long chain fatty acid (LCFA) profiles in the rumen microbiome (bacterial and protozoan), and volatile fatty acids (VFAs) in fermentation media. In step 2, the proportions and physicochemical parameter values of LCFAs and VFAs were calculated under different boundary conditions (c(j)) like c(1) = acid and/or base methylation treatments, c(2) = with/without fermentation, c(3) = FA distribution phase (media, bacterial, or protozoan microbiome), etc. In step 3, Perturbation Theory (PT) and LFER ideas were combined to develop a PT-LFER model of a FA distribution network using physicochemical parameters (V-k), the corresponding Box-Jenkins (Delta V-kj) and PT operators (Delta Delta V-kj) in statistical analysis. The best PT-LFER model found predicted the effects of perturbations over the FA distribution network with sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy > 80% for 407 655 cases in training + external validation series. In step 4, alternative PT-LFER and PT-NLFER models were tested for training Linear and Non-Linear Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs). PT-NLFER models based on ANNs presented better performance but are more complicated than the PT-LFER model. Last, in step 5, the PT-LFER model based on LDA was used to reconstruct the complex networks of perturbations in the FA distribution and compared the giant components of the observed and predicted networks with random Erdos-Renyi network models. In short, our new PT-LFER model is a useful tool for predicting a distribution network in terms of specific fatty acid distribution.
Expressions are facial activities invoked by sets of muscle motions, which would give rise to large variations in appearance mainly around facial parts. Therefore, for visual-based expression analysis, localizing the action parts and encoding them effectively become two essential but challenging problems. To take them into account jointly for expression analysis, in this paper, we propose to adapt 3D Convolutional Neural Networks (3D CNN) with deformable action parts constraints. Specifically, we incorporate a deformable parts learning component into the 3D CNN framework, which can detect specific facial action parts under the structured spatial constraints, and obtain the discriminative part-based representation simultaneously. The proposed method is evaluated on two posed expression datasets, CK+, MMI, and a spontaneous dataset FERA. We show that, besides achieving state-of-the-art expression recognition accuracy, our method also enjoys the intuitive appeal that the part detection map can desirably encode the mid-level semantics of different facial action parts.
Until now, most existing researches on person re-identification aim at improving the recognition rate on single dataset setting. The training data and testing data of these methods are form the same source. Although they have obtained high recognition rate in experiments, they usually perform poorly in practical applications. In this paper, we focus on the cross dataset person re-identificationwhich make more sense in the real world. We present a deep learning framework based on convolutional neural networks to learn the person representation instead of existing hand-crafted features, and cosine metric is used to calculate the similarity. Three different datasets Shinpuhkan2014dataset, CUHK and CASPR are chosen as the training sets, we evaluate the performances of the learned person representations on VIPeR. For the training set Shinpuhkan2014dataset, we also evaluate the performances on PRID and iLIDS. Experiments show that our method outperforms the existing cross dataset methods significantly and even approaches the performances of some methods in single dataset setting.
Sentiment analysis has now become a popular research problem to tackle in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) field. We introduce a novel Parallel Recursive Deep Model (PRDM) for predicting sentiment label distributions. The main trait of our model is to not only use the composition units, i.e., the vector of word, phrase and sentiment label with them, but also exploit the information encoded among the structure of sentiment label, by introducing a sentiment Recursive Neural Network (sentiment-RNN) together with RNTN. The two parallel neural networks together compose of our novel deep model structure, in which Sentiment-RNN and RNTN cooperate with each other. On predicting sentiment label distributions task, our model outperforms previous state of the art approaches on both full sentences level and phrases level by a large margin.
We propose multistate activation functions (MSAFs) for deep neural networks (DNNs). These MSAFs are new kinds of activation functions which are capable of representingmore than two states, including the N-order MSAFs and the symmetrical MSAF. DNNs with these MSAFs can be trained via conventional Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) as well as mean-normalised SGD. We also discuss how theseMSAFs perform when used to resolve classification problems. Experimental results on the TIMIT corpus reveal that, on speech recognition tasks, DNNs withMSAFs perform better than the conventional DNNs, getting a relative improvement of 5.60% on phoneme error rates. Further experiments also reveal that mean-normalised SGD facilitates the training processes of DNNs with MSAFs, especially when being with large training sets. The models can also be directly trained without pretraining when the training set is sufficiently large, which results in a considerable relative improvement of 5.82% on word error rates.
Projection temporal logic programming language MSVL can be well used in modelling simulation and verification of concurrent programs. Non-blocking programs have been widely used in multiprocessor systems. In this paper, we combine separation logic and projection temporal logic to reason about non-blocking concurrency. To this end, we use separation logic as state assertions and projection temporal logic as interval assertions to specify the spatial and temporal properties. Then we extend the MSVL language with atomic blocks, the pointer assignment and the interleaving operator to simulate various of non-blocking programs. Further, we give a sound axiomatic system for the new extended MSVL and prove the lock-free property of Treiber's stack using the axiomatic system.
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), which showed success in achieving translation invariance for many image processing tasks, are investigated for continuous speech recognitions in the paper. Compared to Deep Neural Networks (DNNs), which have been proven to be successful in many speech recognition tasks nowadays, CNNs can reduce the NN model sizes significantly, and at the same time achieve even better recognition accuracies. Experiments on standard speech corpus TIMIT showed that CNNs outperformed DNNs in the term of the accuracy when CNNs had even smaller model size.
Aluminum reduction cell is a non-linear, multivariable coupling time-varying system, inside which a large number of physical and chemical reactions occur. Meanwhile, aluminum reduction cell is often influenced by disturbance outside, which can easily cause instability of aluminum reduction cell. For the analysis of aluminum reduction cell, a kind of expert system based on blackboard structure is proposed, which can analyze aluminum reduction cell by combination of rule-based reasoning and case-based reasoning based on the data of blackboard structure and information from knowledge base. For an aluminum plant, experiment result has shown that expert system based on blackboard structure can analyze the aluminum reduction cell effectively, and it has certain engineering practicability.
Optoelectronic hybrid system is widely used in military field and civilian field. Target recognition is one of the important functions of optoelectronic hybrid system. In order to improve the system's flexibility and intelligence, expert system is involved into optoelectronic hybrid system. This paper presents a model of target recognition based on CBR (case-based reasoning) expert system in optoelectronic hybrid system. And this paper processes an experiment about target recognition to recognize the vehicles. In this experiment, the KNN (K-nearest neighbors), a classical algorithm of CBR and one UCI data-set is employed. Results demonstrate that CBR expert system can be used to recognize the target in optoelectronic hybrid system, and the accuracy and efficiency can be improved by selecting features.
The spectrophotometer is the most used analysis equipment in traditional colorimetric methods. However, the operation of using a spectrophotometer is time-consuming and labor-intensive, which presents practical difficulties in rapid detection. To this end, we present a digital color analysis method, using the typical 3,5-dinitrosalicylic acid (DNS) method for glucose detection as an example. The primary colors from 3 color spaces (Red-Green-Blue, Hue-Saturation-Value, Hue-Saturation-Intensity) were studied as quantitative analytical parameters for the glucose concentration and the red color (from the Red-Green-Blue colorspace) of the assay image provides superior prediction precision (>99.8%). Combined with the color analysis, two calculation algorithms, nonlinear regression and artificial neural networks, were compared for the detection of a high concentration of glucose. Then a microtiter plate (48-well plate) platform, based on the color analysis, was set up. Compared to existing methods using a spectrophotometer, the digital color analysis method has a large detection range (0-10 g L-1), high accuracy (0.07 g L-1) and fast detection rate (150 samples detected within about 15 min). It also shows great promise for use in a variety of reducing sugar measurements such as xylose, fructose and maltose. These aforementioned features render this newly developed method highly suitable for quick detection applications.
Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to introduce the physical structure and the control mechanism of human motor nervous system to the robotic system in a tentative manner to improve the compliance/flexibility/versatility of the robot.
Multiple-Scissor-Linkage (MSL) is kinematic mechanic, and to be a means for using two or more pairs of scissor linkages operating in different planes for moving a device in linear or nonlinear motions specifically. It is a modular component that constructs long extending, high precise movement and stronger robotic arms. It should reachmuch longer distance than conventional joint robotic arm because the multiply bar linkages like multiply arms connected one end to another.
The support vector regression (SVR) and neural network (NN) are both new tools from the artificial intelligence field, which have been successfully exploited to solve various problems especially for time series forecasting. However, traditional SVR and NN cannot accurately describe intricate time series with the characteristics of high volatility, nonstationarity, and nonlinearity, such as wind speed and electricity price time series. This study proposes an ensemble approach on the basis of 5-3 Hanning filter (5-3H) and wavelet denoising (WD) techniques, in conjunction with artificial intelligence optimization based SVR and NN model. So as to confirm the validity of the proposed model, two applicative case studies are conducted in terms of wind speed series from Gansu Province in China and electricity price from New South Wales in Australia. The computational results reveal that cuckoo search (CS) outperforms both PSO and GA with respect to convergence and global searching capacity, and the proposed CS-based hybrid model is effective and feasible in generating more reliable and skillful forecasts.
Extracting road networks from very-high-resolution (VHR) aerial and satellite imagery has been a long-standing problem. In this article, a neural-dynamic tracking framework is proposed to extract road networks based on deep convolutional neural networks (DNN) and a finite state machine (FSM). Inspired by autonomous mobile systems, the authors train a DNN to recognize the pattern of input data, which is an image patch extracted in a detection window centred at the current location of the tracker. The pattern is predefined according to the environment and associated with the states in the FSM. A vector-guided sampling method is proposed to generate the training data set for the DNN, which extracts massive image-direction pairs from the imagery and existing vector road maps. In the tracking procedure, the size of the detection window is determined by a fusion strategy and the extracted image patches represent the orientation features of the road (local environment) that can be recognized by the trained DNN. The reactive unit in FSM associates states with behaviours of the tracker while continually modifying the orientation to follow the road and generating a sequence of states and locations. In this way, our framework combines the DNN and FSM. DNN acts as a key component to recognize patterns from a complex and changing environment; FSM translates the recognized patterns to states and controls the behaviour of the tracker. The results illustrate that our approach is more accurate and efficient than the traditional ones.
It is well established that spatial excitable media can be used for information processing. A single excitation pulse can represent one bit of information and a group of excitations forms a message. Different structures designed can realize different functions of infonnation processing. In this paper, we systematically designed structures of digital comparator, and numerical simulations have been carried out to show that these structures can realize the function of digital comparator well. Firstly we designed one-bit and two-bit digital comparator, and then we successfully designed three-bit digital comparator in two different ways, thus we demonstrated two expanding ways to realize the multi-bit digital comparator: nesting way and cascading way. We believe that the realization of digital comparator is helpful for the constructions of other logic and arithmetic functions, and ultimately can bring great potential applications for the implementation of chemical computer and other intelligent systems.
Organic bioelectronics offers important opportunities to study complex biological systems, such as neural networks, and develop new biomedical tools for the diagnosis and treatment of brain diseases. This Highlight is focused on recent progress in neural recording and stimulation enabled by using conducting polymers as active elements in bioelectronics, with an emphasis on the underlying mechanisms for the improved signal transduction capabilities at organic/neural interfaces. These studies are classified into two categories, electrochemical electrodes and electrochemical transistors, according to their operating principles. Future challenges and directions towards organic/neural interfaces are discussed as a conclusion.
Recently, deep learning has aroused wide interest in machine learning fields. Deep learning is a multilayer perceptron artificial neural network algorithm. Deep learning has the advantage of approximating the complicated function and alleviating the optimization difficulty associated with deep models. Multilayer extreme learning machine (MLELM) is a learning algorithm of an artificial neural network which takes advantages of deep learning and extreme learning machine. Not only does MLELM approximate the complicated function but it also does not need to iterate during the training process. We combining with MLELM and extreme learning machine with kernel (KELM) put forward deep extreme learning machine (DELM) and apply it to EEG classification in this paper. This paper focuses on the application of DELM in the classification of the visual feedback experiment, using MATLAB and the second brain-computer interface (BCI) competition datasets. By simulating and analyzing the results of the experiments, effectiveness of the application of DELM in EEG classification is confirmed.
One-class classification problem has been investigated thoroughly for past decades. Among one of the most effective neural network approaches for one-class classification, autoencoder has been successfully applied for many applications. However, this classifier relies on traditional learning algorithms such as backpropagation to train the network, which is quite time-consuming. To tackle the slow learning speed in autoencoder neural network, we propose a simple and efficient one-class classifier based on extreme learning machine (ELM). The essence of ELM is that the hidden layer need not be tuned and the output weights can be analytically determined, which leads to much faster learning speed. The experimental evaluation conducted on several real-world benchmarks shows that the ELM based one-class classifier can learn hundreds of times faster than autoencoder and it is competitive over a variety of one-class classification methods.
The hazard of oil contamination in sewage detection has drawn great attention and gives rise to some technical difficulties for pipe inspection applications using robots. In the attempt to face this challenge, a magnetically controlled micro-robot model was designed to allow it to move directionally on oil-contaminated water. In this design, magnetically responsive mesh supports were used; moreover, these were required to float at air/water and oil/water interfaces. Optimal analysis of force shows the importance of superhydrophobicity for the floatability of mesh supports at these two interfaces. Accordingly, mesh surfaces were decorated to produce superhydrophobicity by a simple fluorination process. A superhydrophobic mesh was experimentally verified to freely float at both interfaces, providing a large supporting force to improve its floating stability. Guided by a magnetic field, the micro-robot model with mesh supports could float, move and rotate at air/water and oil/water interfaces in a closed system. Therefore, our findings could offer guidance for the design of aquatic micro-devices to detect sewage in bent or small-sized pipes.
Localization of the vertebrae is of importance in many medical applications. For example, the vertebrae can serve as the landmarks in image registration. They can also provide a reference coordinate system to facilitate the localization of other organs in the chest. In this paper, we propose a new vertebrae localization method using convolutional neural networks (CNN). The main advantage of the proposed method is the removal of hand-crafted features. We construct two training sets to train two CNNs that share the same architecture. One is used to distinguish the vertebrae from other tissues in the chest, and the other is aimed at detecting the centers of the vertebrae. The architecture contains two convolutional layers, both of which are followed by a max-pooling layer. Then the output feature vector from the max-pooling layer is fed into a multilayer perceptron (MLP) classifier which has one hidden layer. Experiments were performed on ten chest CT images. We used leave-one-out strategy to train and test the proposed method. Quantitative comparison between the predict centers and ground truth shows that our convolutional neural networks can achieve promising localization accuracy without hand-crafted features.
We present a review of the recently developed landscape and flux theory for non-equilibrium dynamical systems. We point out that the global natures of the associated dynamics for non-equilibrium system are determined by two key factors: the underlying landscape and, importantly, a curl probability flux. The landscape (U) reflects the probability of states (P) (U = -ln P) and provides a global characterization and a stability measure of the system. The curl flux term measures how much detailed balance is broken and is one of the two main driving forces for the non-equilibrium dynamics in addition to the landscape gradient. Equilibrium dynamics resembles electron motion in an electric field, while non-equilibrium dynamics resembles electron motion in both electric and magnetic fields. The landscape and flux theory has many interesting consequences including (1) the fact that irreversible kinetic paths do not necessarily pass through the landscape saddles; (2) non-equilibrium transition state theory at the new saddle on the optimal paths for small but finite fluctuations; (3) a generalized fluctuation-dissipation relationship for non-equilibrium dynamical systems where the response function is not just equal to the fluctuations at the steady state alone as in the equilibrium case but there is an additional contribution from the curl flux in maintaining the steady state; (4) non-equilibrium thermodynamics where the free energy change is not just equal to the entropy production alone, as in the equilibrium case, but also there is an additional housekeeping contribution from the non-zero curl flux in maintaining the steady state; (5) gauge theory and a geometrical connection where the flux is found to be the origin of the gauge field curvature and the topological phase in analogy to the Berry phase in quantum mechanics; (6) coupled landscapes where non-adiabaticity of multiple landscapes in non-equilibrium dynamics can be analyzed using the landscape and flux theory and an eddy current emerges from the non-zero curl flux; (7) stochastic spatial dynamics where landscape and flux theory can be generalized for non-equilibrium field theory. We provide concrete examples of biological systems to demonstrate the new insights from the landscape and flux theory.
This study conducted a comprehensive evaluation of three satellite precipitation products (TRMM (Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission) 3B42, CMORPH (the Climate Prediction Center (CPC) Morphing algorithm), and PERSIANN (Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information using Artificial Neural Networks)) using data from 52 rain gauge stations over the Meichuan watershed, which is a representative watershed of the Poyang Lake Basin in China. All the three products were compared and evaluated during a 9-year period at different spatial (grid and watershed) and temporal (daily, monthly, and annual) scales. The results showed that at daily scale, CMORPH had the best performance with coefficients of determination (R-2) of 0.61 at grid scale and 0.74 at watershed scale. For precipitation intensities larger than or equal to 25 mm, RMSE% of CMORPH and TRMM3B42 were less than 50%, indicating CMORPH and TRMM 3B42 might be useful for hydrological applications at daily scale. At monthly and annual temporal scales, TRMM3B42 had the best performances, with high.. 2 ranging from 0.93 to 0.99, and thus was deemed to be reliable and had good potential for hydrological applications at monthly and annual scales. PERSIANN had the worst performance among the three products at all cases.
Current work on steganalysis for digital images is focused on the construction of complex handcrafted features. This paper proposes a new paradigm for steganalysis to learn features automatically via deep learning models. We novelly propose a customized Convolutional Neural Network for steganalysis. The proposed model can capture the complex dependencies that are useful for steganalysis. Compared with existing schemes, this model can automatically learn feature representations with several convolutional layers. The feature extraction and classification steps are unified under a single architecture, which means the guidance of classification can be used during the feature extraction step. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model on three state-of-the-art spatial domain steganographic algorithms - HUGO, WOW, and S-UNIWARD. Compared to the Spatial Rich Model (SRM), our model achieves comparable performance on BOSSbase and the realistic and large Image Net database.
This paper is concerned with the stability analysis of discrete-time Markov jump linear systems (MJLSs) with time-varying delay and partly known transition probabilities. The time delay is varying between lower and upper bounds, and the partly known transition probabilities cover the cases of known, uncertain with known lower and upper bounds, and completely unknown, which is more general than the existing result. Via constructing an appropriate Lyapunov function and employing a new technique to separate Lyapunov variables from unknown transition probabilities, a novel stability criterion is obtained in the framework of linear matrix inequality. A numerical example is given to show the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
A protein contact map is a simplified, two-dimensional version of the three-dimensional protein structure. Protein contact map is proved to be crucial in forming the three-dimensional structure. Contact map prediction has now become an indispensable and promising intermediate step towards final three-dimensional structure prediction, while directed sequence-structure prediction hits its bottlenecks. In this article, different evaluation scores of prediction efficiency are compared. Next, the state of the art and future perspectives of contact map methods are reviewed and special attention is paid to those relying on machine learning algorithms. Details of neural network based methods as well as a list of machine learning based methods are given. Finally, bottlenecks and potential improvements of contact map predictions are discussed.
Latching dynamics retrieve pattern sequences successively by neural adaption and pattern correlation. We have previously proposed a modular latching chain model in Song et al. (2014) to better accommodate the structured transitions in the brain. Different cortical areas have different network structures. To explore how structural parameters like rewiring probability, threshold, noise and feedback connections affect the latching dynamics, two different connection schemes, K-nearest-neighbor network and modular network both having modular structure are considered. Latching chains are measured using two proposed measures characterizing length of intra-modular latching chains and sequential inter-modular association transitions. Our main findings include: (1) With decreasing threshold coefficient and rewiring probability, both the K-nearest-neighbor network and the modular network experience quantitatively similar phase change processes. (2) The modular network exhibits selectively enhanced latching in the small-world range of connectivity. (3) The K-nearest-neighbor network is more robust to changes in rewiring probability, while the modular network is more robust to the presence of noise pattern pairs and to changes in the strength of feedback connections. According to our findings, the relationships between latching chains in K-nearest-neighbor and modular networks and different forms of cognition and information processing emerging in the brain are discussed.
We use conventional adaptive optical system to compensate atmospheric turbulence in free space optical (FSO) communication system under strong scintillation circumstances, undesired wave-front measurements based on Shark-Hartman sensor (SH). Since wavefront sensor-less adaptive optics is a feasible option, we propose several swarm intelligence algorithms to compensate the wavefront aberration from atmospheric interference in FSO and mainly discuss the algorithm principle, basic flows, and simulation result. The numerical simulation experiment and result analysis show that compared with SPGD algorithm, the proposed algorithms can effectively restrain wavefront aberration, and improve convergence rate of the algorithms and the coupling efficiency of receiver in large extent.
The computer keyboard is one of the most common, reliable, accessible, and effective tools used for human-machine interfacing and information exchange. Although keyboards have been used for hundreds of years for advancing human civilization, studying human behavior by keystroke dynamics using smart keyboards remains a great challenge. Here we report a self-powered, non-mechanical-punching keyboard enabled by contact electrification between human fingers and keys, which converts mechanical stimuli applied to the keyboard into local electronic signals without applying an external power. The intelligent keyboard (IKB) can not only sensitively trigger a wireless alarm system once gentle finger tapping occurs but also trace and record typed content by detecting both the dynamic time intervals between and during the inputting of letters and the force used for each typing action. Such features hold promise for its use as a smart security system that can realize detection, alert, recording, and identification. Moreover, the IKB is able to identify personal characteristics from different individuals, assisted by the behavioral biometric of keystroke dynamics. Furthermore, the IKB can effectively harness typing motions for electricity to charge commercial electronics at arbitrary typing speeds greater than 100 characters per min. Given the above features, the IKB can be potentially applied not only to self-powered electronics but also to artificial intelligence, cyber security, and computer or network access control.
Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to present a fully automatic calibration method for hand-eye serial robot system is presented in this paper. The so-called "fully automatic" is meant to calibrate the robot body, the hand-eye relation, and the used measuring binocular system at the same time.
This paper investigates the distributed containment tracking control problem for first-order agents with multiple dynamic leaders under directed Markovian switching network topologies. The control input of each agent can only use its local state and the states of its neighbors corrupted by white noises. Firstly, when the dynamic leaders' velocities have some special forms, which include the stationary leaders as a special case, some necessary and sufficient conditions are presented for the containment tracking in the asymptotic unbiased mean square sense. Secondly, for more general leaders' velocities, necessary and sufficient conditions are provided for the containment tracking with bounded errors in the mean square sense. Finally, a simulation example is given to illustrate the performance of the proposed control scheme. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper presents a wheeled wall-climbing robot with the ability to climb concrete, brick walls using circular arrays of miniature spines located around the wheel. The robot consists of two driving wheels and a flexible tail, just like letter "T", so it is called Tbot. The simple and effective structure of Tbot enables it to be steerable and to transition from horizontal to vertical surfaces rapidly and stably. Inspired by the structure and mechanics of the tarsal chain in the Serica orientalis Motschulsky, a compliant spine mechanism was developed. With the bio-inspired compliant spine mechanism, the climbing performance of Tbot was improved. It could climb on 100 degrees (10 degrees past vertical) brick walls at a speed of 10 cm.s(-1). A mechanical model is also presented to analyze the forces acting on spine during a climbing cycle as well as load share between multi-spines. The simulation and experiment results show that the mechanical model is suitable and useful in the optimum design of Tbot.
The 'Technological Innovation System' (TIS) framework and its system functions have become a popular analytical tool for the study of clean-tech innovation. There is increasing attention for the role of emerging economies in global clean-tech innovation, but the applicability of TIS to emerging economies cases is not entirely straightforward. A key issue is the limited geographical considerations, in particular transnational dimensions in TIS, whereas earlier perspectives on innovation in emerging economies have stressed the role of such transnational dimensions. This paper elaborates transnational TIS actor-networks and institutions, categorizes these in relation to TIS functions, and describes their potential to induce or block TIS development in emerging economies. We draw on insights from the perspectives of National Learning Systems, International Technology Transfer, and Global Production Networks for this purpose. We conclude that the potential effects of these transnational dimensions may be accurately grasped by the existing list of system functions, lending credence to its further application of the TIS framework on emerging economy case studies. Policy makers in emerging economies should recognize these transnational dimensions and seek to optimize their potential effect on domestic TIS development, taking in to consideration a realistic assessment of its role in the global TIS. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The accuracy of snow depth retrieval by remote sensing depends heavily on the characteristics of the snow, and both passive microwave and visible/infrared sensors can contribute to the acquisition of this information. A method integrating these two remotely sensed data sets is presented in this study. Snow depth retrieval is performed using microwave brightness temperature at 19 and 37 GHz from the Special Sensor Microwave/Imager (SSM/I) and the Special Sensor Microwave Image/Sounder (SSMI/S), and visible/infrared surface reflectance from Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroadiometer (MODIS) products. Microwave brightness temperature provides information about the volume of snow pack, and visible/infrared surface reflectance can indicate snow presence and surface grain size. With these two remote sensing data sets, snow depth is retrieved by a nonlinear data mining technique, the modified sequential minimal optimization (SMO) algorithm for support vector machine (SVM) regression. The proposed method is tested by using 16,329 records of dry snow measured at 54 meteorological stations in Xinjiang, China over an area of 1.6 million km(2) from 2000 to 2009. The root mean square error (RMSE), relative RMSE and the correlation coefficient of our method are 621 cm, 0.64 and 0.87, respectively. These results are better than those obtained using only brightness temperature data (8.80 cm, 0.90 and 0.73), the traditional spectral polarization difference (SPD) algorithm (15.07 cm, 1.54 and 0.58), a modified Chang algorithm in WESTDC (9.80 cm, 1.00 and 0.62), or the multilayer perceptron classifier of artificial neural networks (ANN) (9.23 cm, 0.94 and 0.72). The daily snow water equivalent (SWE) retrieved by this method has an RMSE of 8.05 mm and a correlation of 0.84, which are better than those of NASA NSIDC (32.87 mm and 0.47) or Globsnow (19.07 mm and 0.59). This study demonstrates that the combination of visible/infrared surface reflectance and microwave brightness temperature via an SVM regression can provide a more accurate retrieval of snow depth. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Much like genomics, brain connectomics has rapidly become a core component of most national brain projects around the world. Beyond the ambitious aims of these projects, a fundamental challenge is the need for an efficient, robust, reliable and easy-to-use pipeline to mine such large neuroscience datasets. Here, we introduce a computational pipeline-namely the Connectome Computation System (CCS)-for discovery science of human brain connectomes at the macroscale with multimodal magnetic resonance imaging technologies. The CCS is designed with a three-level hierarchical structure that includes data cleaning and preprocessing, individual connectome mapping and connectome mining, and knowledge discovery. Several functional modules are embedded into this hierarchy to implement quality control procedures, reliability analysis and connectome visualization. We demonstrate the utility of the CCS based upon a publicly available dataset, the NKI-Rockland Sample, to delineate the normative trajectories of well-known large-scale neural networks across the natural life span (6-85 years of age). The CCS has been made freely available to the public via GitHub (https://github.com/zuoxinian/CCS) and our laboratory's Web site (http://lfcd.psych.ac.cn/ccs.html) to facilitate progress in discovery science in the field of human brain connectomics.
Watershed management and planning is a complex decision-making process, which not only involves deliberation using one or more watershed models, but also requires collaboration among multiple stakeholder groups with different ideologies, interests, and demographics. Web-based decision support tools have great potentials to enhance the transparency and participation of such decision making processes. Although physically based surface water quality models are well suited for offline water quality analyses, they are often too computationally demanding to be deployed in a web-based environment. In this work, three metamodels are developed to support decision-making activities related to surface water quality management at Arroyo Colorado Watershed, a coastal watershed located in Texas, US. All three metamodels are trained using an existing Soil and Water Assessment Tool (SWAT) model developed for the watershed. The main objectives of the metamodels are to support web-based decision support, including near-term nutrient load forecasting, online sensitivity study, and long-term load reduction planning. All metamodels either replicate or extend the capabilities of the original SWAT model and, thus, provide proxies for regulators and stakeholders to examine and discuss model results interactively. The novel, multi-metamodel methodology taken here is not only useful for supporting multigroup decision making and public education, but also provides a more effective way to leverage existing investment on watershed models.
In this technical note, we consider the distributed surrounding of a convex target set by a group of agents with switching communication graphs. We propose a distributed controller to surround a given set with the same distance and desired projection angles specified by a complex-value adjacency matrix. Under mild connectivity assumptions, we give results in both consistent and inconsistent cases for the set surrounding in a plane. Also, we provide sufficient conditions for the multi-agent coordination when the convex set contains only the origin.
In the Web 2.0 era, a huge number of media data, such as text, image/video, and social interaction information, have been generated on the social media sites (e.g., Facebook, Google, Flickr, and YouTube). These media data can be effectively adopted for many applications (e.g., image/video annotation, image/video retrieval, and event classification) in multimedia. However, it is difficult to design an effective feature representation to describe these data because they have multi-modal property (e.g., text, image, video, and audio) and multi-domain property (e.g., Flickr, Google, and YouTube). To deal with these issues, we propose a novel cross-domain feature learning (CDFL) algorithm based on stacked denoising auto-encoders. By introducing the modal correlation constraint and the cross-domain constraint in conventional auto-encoder, our CDFL can maximize the correlations among different modalities and extract domain invariant semantic features simultaneously. To evaluate our CDFL algorithm, we apply it to three important applications: sentiment classification, spam filtering, and event classification. Comprehensive evaluations demonstrate the encouraging performance of the proposed approach.
This article focuses on the active vibration control of a kind of two-connected piezoelectric flexible plate. A finite element model of the connected plate integrated with distributed piezoelectric sensors and actuators is derived, including bending and torsional vibrations. In this model, two connected hinges are simplified as regular plate elements to facilitate the system. A modified optimization method based on the energy dissipation rate is used for the optimal placement of piezoelectric sensors and actuators. The bending and torsional vibrations of the two-connected plate can be decoupled on measurement and driving control, due to the appropriate placement of the lead zirconate titanate sensors and actuators. The proportional and derivative control, the proposed nonlinear controller, and T-S fuzzy control algorithms are applied to suppress the bending and torsional vibrations of the two-connected plate. The numerical simulation and experimental results demonstrate that the last two control algorithms can suppress the low-order bending and torsional vibration more effectively than that of the designed proportional and derivative control algorithm.
The H-infinity control design problem is considered for nonlinear systems with unknown internal system model. It is known that the nonlinear H-infinity control problem can be transformed into solving the so-called Hamilton-Jacobi-Isaacs (HJI) equation, which is a nonlinear partial differential equation that is generally impossible to be solved analytically. Even worse, model-based approaches cannot be used for approximately solving HJI equation, when the accurate system model is unavailable or costly to obtain in practice. To overcome these difficulties, an off-policy reinforcement leaning (RL) method is introduced to learn the solution of HJI equation from real system data instead of mathematical system model, and its convergence is proved. In the off-policy RL method, the system data can be generated with arbitrary policies rather than the evaluating policy, which is extremely important and promising for practical systems. For implementation purpose, a neural network (NN)-based actor-critic structure is employed and a least-square NN weight update algorithm is derived based on the method of weighted residuals. Finally, the developed NN-based off-policy RL method is tested on a linear F16 aircraft plant, and further applied to a rotational/translational actuator system.
Ensemble is a recently emerged computing technique to provide promising decisions by a consensus of multiple classifiers. The benefit of classifier ensembles has been demonstrated in a vast number of studies in the scope of credit risk management. Yet the performance of different ensemble models was rarely compared when the costs of misclassification errors are asymmetric. In this paper, we concentrate on the performance of 6 ensemble techniques in the context of cost-sensitive credit scoring using 3 financial data sets. The ensemble models are built on the basis of a set of component classifiers derived from different subsets of instances or features by a single learning algorithm. The performance of classifiers is evaluated in terms of expected misclassification cost and compared by nonparametric significance test. The experimental results demonstrate that the functionality of ensembles for boosting the performance of individual classifiers is closely related to the underlying learning algorithms and the employed ensemble techniques.
The requirements for functionality and accuracy of gas detectors in modern society are getting higher and higher, and many gas sensors inherently have temperature sensitivity and cross sensitivity. The sensor information fusion technology for industrial applications is becoming increasingly important. A multifunctional hand-held gas detector has been designed based on an ultralow-power MCU MSP430, which can detect the concentration of O-2, CO, CH4, and H2S. This design conducted the temperature compensation for a linear assumption of temperature effect, and clarified the methods for a nonlinear assumption. The experiments tested the cross sensitivity between the gas sensors, and verified that the instrument can effectively reduce the influence of cross sensitivity using the surface fitting algorithm and enhance the measurement accuracy by one to two orders of magnitude. Based on these conclusions, we can obtain that the instrument is stable and it meets the accuracy requirements well.
Recently, neural network (NN) accelerators are gaining popularity as part of future heterogeneous multi-core architectures due to their broad application scope and excellent energy efficiency. Additionally, since neural networks can be retrained, they are inherently resillient to errors and noises. Prior work has utilized the error tolerance feature to design approximate neural network circuits or tolerate logical faults. However, besides high-level faults or noises, timing errors induced by delay faults, process variations, aging, etc. are dominating the reliability of NN accelerator under nanoscale manufacturing process. In this paper, we leverage the error resiliency of neural network to mitigate timing errors in NN accelerators. Specifically, when timing errors significantly affect the output results, we propose to retrain the accelerators to update their weights, thus circumventing critical timing errors. Experimental results show that timing errors in NN accelerators can be well tamed for different applications.
Early stages of system development involve outlining desired features such as functionality, availability, or usability. Specifications are derived from these features that concretize vague ideas presented in natural languages. The challenge for the verification and validation of specifications arises from the syntax and semantic gap between different representations and the need of automatic tools. In this paper, we present a requirement-consistency maintenance framework to produce consistent representations. The first part is the automatic translation from natural languages describing functionalities to formal logic with an abstraction of time. It extends pure syntactic parsing by adding semantic reasoning and the support of partitioning input and output variables. The second part is the use of synthesis techniques to examine if the requirements are consistent in terms of realizability. When the process fails, the formulas that cause the inconsistency are reported to locate the problem.
Face recognition is one of the most significant branches in computer vision research. the most fundamental but by far the most important task is facial keypoints detection, that is, to find out the locations of specific keypoints on face images In this thesis,, we are given a list of 96x96-pixel 8-bit graylevel images. The task is to predict the positions of 15 keypoints on grayscale face images. Each predicted keypoint is specified by an (x, y) real-valued pair. In experiments, we trained Deep Convolutional Network (CNN) and varied the depth and size of an architecture. The experimental results show that the network-4 which has 7 layers with the provides better results than other's model for the dataset.
The stability and the Hopf bifurcation of a nonlinear electromechanical coupling system with time delay feedback are studied. By considering the energy in the air-gap field of the AC motor, the dynamical equation of the electromechanical coupling transmission system is deduced and a time delay feedback is introduced to control the dynamic behaviors of the system. The characteristic roots and the stable regions of time delay are determined by the direct method, and the relationship between the feedback gain and the length summation of stable regions is analyzed. Choosing the time delay as a bifurcation parameter, we find that the Hopf bifurcation occurs when the time delay passes through a critical value. A formula for determining the direction of the Hopf bifurcation and the stability of the bifurcating periodic solutions is given by using the normal form method and the center manifold theorem. Numerical simulations are also performed, which confirm the analytical results.
Efficiency and effectiveness are two key factors to evaluate a human segmentation algorithm for real vision applications. However, most existing algorithms only focus on one of them. That is, fast and accurate human segmentation is not yet well addressed. In this paper, we propose a super-fast and highly accurate human segmentation method with very deep convolutional neural networks. We also provide a comprehensive study on the proposed approach, including different net structures, various techniques of alleviating over-fitting, and performance enhancement with different extra data. Experimental results on the database of Baidu people segmentation competition [1] demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms traditional segmentation algorithms in accuracy and speed. Although it is slightly worse than the very complex champion algorithm, it is encouraging that our method can obtain more than 10,000 times acceleration, showing that it has great potential for practical applications.
Modern cellular resource management for dynamic control of channel resources and energy efficiency improvement relies largely on early and accurate monitoring and prediction of cellular base station traffic volumes. Analysis of network traffic volume over space and time plays an important role in traffic prediction. In this paper, we examine both the temporal and spatial characteristics of cellular traffic data generated by users in a large population city in China. We analyze and cluster base-stations of similar characteristics. We determine the sliding window sizes and integrate the Elman Neural Network (ENN) after applying wavelet transform in order to realize traffic volume prediction. We present numerical results to illustrate the accuracy of wireless traffic volume prediction, and we test the performance of our method to demonstrate improvement over some existing methods.
At present, based on computer and information technology, intelligent diagnosis technology is in rapid development. In this paper, the application of artificial intelligence and learning techniques in intelligent fault diagnosis are demonstrated, such as Rule-Based Reasoning, Case-based Reasoning, Network neural, Fuzzy Logic, Genetic algorithm, Rough set theory, Bayesian network theory, Multi-agents, Reinforcement Learning, Support Vector Machine. Some kinds of applications are introduced. These intelligent fault diagnosis methods are widely used in complex fault diagnosis system. We will try to use them in our future intelligent fault diagnosis system for space station.
This paper presents a novel vision chip architecture for high accuracy image recognition based on the state- of- the- art algorithm- convolutional neural network (CNN). The architecture consists three hierarchical parallel processors: a processing element (PE) array, a row processor (RP) array and a dual - core microprocessor (MPU). It is compatible with conventional algorithms and reconfigurable for computing convolutional neural networks effectively. The architecture was implemented on a FPGA platform with 50MHz system clock, it achieves high classification accuracy up to 96.3% and high frame rate more than 1600fps. Experiment results indicate that the vision system can achieve real- time performance for image recognition applications.
With the demand of data security, ciphertext search is becoming a popular issue. Especially, the efficiency of ciphertext search is attracting more and more attention as the data volume is experiencing explosive growth. Traditional search methods are not suitable for current situation since all the data stored at the cloud server is encrypted. Therefore, this paper proposes a hierarchical clustering algorithm based on swarm intelligence and fuzzy logic (HCSF) to address the efficiency problem in ciphertext search. The proposed method classifies different documents into different categories by taking the advantage of swarm intelligence and fuzzy logic. Meanwhile, a split mechanism based on the maximum of documents in a cluster is proposed to deal with some clusters containing excessive documents. Furthermore, a hierarchical structure is designed to organize the documents by combining with the spilt mechanism. An experiment built on the 20 Newsgroups data set is conducted to assess the efficiency of HCSF. The experimental result shows the proposed method is efficient.
The shift of resonant frequency is the sensing mechanism for a mechanical resonator. The adsorbate mass, position and induced force are the three dominant things responsible for the resonant frequency shifts of a string resonator. In the application of a resonator sensor, the (shifts of) resonant frequencies are the measured quantities and therefore, an inverse problem arises naturally: How to determine the adsorbate mass, position and induced force by the resonant frequencies? An inverse problem solving method on the string resonator with one adsorbate is presented and its accuracy is demonstrated. By eliminating the off-diagonal elements in the mass matrix, an approximate analytical formula on the string resonant frequencies is derived, which is of great help to attacking the inverse problem. There are infinite combinations of the adsorbate mass, position and induced force which can result in the same shift of one resonant frequency. However, the three unknown parameters are uniquely determined by three resonant frequencies. Mathematically, three nonlinear equations are required to solve the inverse problem. Physically, the inverse problem can be solved because the three parameters impact on one resonant frequency differently and the shifts of different resonant frequencies are different to one another. How the method can be used in a real string sensor application scenario is also discussed.
A vast array of devices, ranging from industrial robots to self-driven cars or smartphones, require increasingly sophisticated processing of real-world input data (image, voice, radio,..). Interestingly, hardware neural network accelerators are emerging again as attractive candidate architectures for such tasks. The neural network algorithms considered come from two, largely separate, domains: machine-learning and neuroscience. These neural networks have very different characteristics, so it is unclear which approach should be favored for hardware implementation. Yet, few studies compare them from a hardware perspective. We implement both types of networks down to the layout, and we compare the relative merit of each approach in terms of energy, speed, area cost, accuracy and functionality.
Accurately predicting the populations with difficulties accessing drinking water because of drought and taking appropriate mitigation measures can minimize economic loss and personal injury. Taking the 2013 Guizhou extreme summer drought as an example, on the basis of collecting meteorological, basic geographic information, socioeconomic data, and disaster effect data of the study area, a rapid assessment model based on a backpropagation (BP) neural network was constructed. Six factors were chosen for the input of the network: the average monthly precipitation, Digital Elevation Model (DEM), river density, population density, road density, and gross domestic product (GDP). The population affected by drought was the model's output. Using samples from 50 drought-affected counties in Guizhou Province for network training, the model's parameters were optimized. Using the trained model, the populations in need were predicted using the other 74 drought-affected counties. The accuracy of the prediction model, represented by the coefficient of determination (R-2) and the normalized root mean square error (N-RMSE), yielded 0.7736 for R-2 and 0.0070 for N-RMSE. The method may provide an effective reference for rapid assessment of the population in need and disaster effect verification.
In this paper, a data-based method is developed for analyzing the controllability and observability of discrete-time linear systems in noisy environment. This method uses measured data to estimate the controllability matrix and the observability matrix without identifying system models. The unbiasedness and consistency of this estimate with measurement noise and system noise are proven, respectively. As the estimated error of system parameters will not accumulate in calculating the controllability matrix and observability matrix, this method has a higher precision than traditional methods, especially in high-dimensional state space. In the simulation, the advantages of the data-based method in accuracy and convergence are illustrated. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Motion tracking is of great importance in a wide range of fields such as automation, robotics, security, sports and entertainment. Here, a self-powered, single-electrode-based triboelectric sensor (TES) is reported to accurately detect the movement of a moving object/body in two dimensions. Based on the coupling of triboelectric effect and electrostatic induction, the movement of an object on the top surface of a polytetrafl uoroethylene (PTFE) layer induces changes in the electrical potential of the patterned aluminum electrodes underneath. From the measurements of the output performance (open-circuit voltage and short-circuit current), the motion information about the object, such as trajectory, velocity, and acceleration is derived in conformity with the preset values. Moreover, the TES can detect motions of more than one objects moving at the same time. In addition, applications of the TES are demonstrated by using LED illuminations as real-time indicators to visualize the movement of a sliding object and the walking steps of a person.
Measurements of ultraviolet (UV) radiation at 38 stations from Chinese Ecosystem Research Network during 2006-2012 were used for reconstructing the historical UV levels in China for the first time. UV models were introduced by analyzing the dependence of UV irradiation on clearness index (K-t) and cosine of solar zenith angle under any sky conditions in each station. Mean bias error (MBE), mean-absolute bias error (MABE) and root-mean-square error (RMSE) were used for assessing the model performance; relative differences between UV estimates and measurements were generally lower than 10% at most stations, which indicated that our all-sky UV models can produce acceptable estimates in China. Long-term UV values during 1961-2012 were then reconstructed for investigating the spatiotemporal characteristics of UV radiation in China based on daily global solar radiation (G) at 115 meteorological stations from China Meteorological Administration. Annual mean daily UV radiation ranged from 0.55 MJ m(-2) d(-1) to 0.65 MJ m(-2) d(-1) with average value being about 0.61 MJ m(-2) (d(-1). It was also discovered that UV radiation decreased slightly at about -2.72 kJ m(-2) d(-1) per decade during the study period and there was an increasing trend since 1991 (0.7 kJ m(-2) d(-1), per year). (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The current study aimed to examine the contribution of neurocognition and social cognition to components of social problem solving. Sixty-seven inpatients with schizophrenia and 31 healthy controls were administrated batteries of neurocognitive tests, emotion perception tests, and the Chinese Assessment of Interpersonal Problem Solving Skills (CAIPSS). MANOVAs were conducted to investigate the domains in which patients with schizophrenia showed impairments. Correlations were used to determine which impaired domains were associated with social problem solving, and multiple regression analyses were conducted to compare the relative contribution of neurocognitive and social cognitive functioning to components of social problem solving. Compared with healthy controls, patients with schizophrenia performed significantly worse in sustained attention, working memory, negative emotion, intention identification and all components of the CAIPSS. Specifically, sustained attention, working memory and negative emotion identification were found to correlate with social problem solving and 1-back accuracy significantly predicted the poor performance in social problem solving. Among the dysfunctions in schizophrenia, working memory contributed most to deficits in social problem solving in patients with schizophrenia. This finding provides support for targeting working memory in the development of future social problem solving rehabilitation interventions. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
This article presents measurements of the t-channel single top-quark ((t) over bart) and top-antiquark (_ t) total production cross sections sdtq_ and sd _ tq_, their ratio Rt sdtq_= sd _ tq_, and a measurement of the inclusive production cross section sdtq _ _ tq_ in proton-proton collisions at ffiffiffi ps = 7 TeV at the LHC. Differential cross sections for the tq and _ tq processes are measured as a function of the transverse momentum and the absolute value of the rapidity of t and _ t, respectively. The analyzed data set was recorded with the ATLAS detector and corresponds to an integrated luminosity of 4.59 fb-1. Selected events contain one charged lepton, large missing transverse momentum, and two or three jets. The cross sections are measured by performing a binned maximum-likelihood fit to the output distributions of neural networks. The resulting measurements are sdtq_ 46 = 1dstat_ = 6dsyst_ pb, sd _ tq_ = 23 +/- 1dstat_ = 3dsyst_ pb, Rt = 2.04 0.13dstat_ +/-=0.12dsyst_, and sdtq _ _ tq_ = 68 +/-= 2dstat_ = 8dsyst_ pb, consistent with the Standard Model expectation. The uncertainty on the measured cross sections is dominated by systematic uncertainties, while the uncertainty on Rt is mainly statistical. Using the ratio of sdtq _ _ tq_ to its theoretical prediction, and assuming that the top-quark-related CKM matrix elements obey the relation jVtbj = jVtsj; jVtdj, we determine jVtbj = 1.02 = 0.07.
Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) land-surface temperature (LST) products provide important and reliable time-series data for the examination of global climate change, water cycling, and ecological evolution. In particular, in recently developed remote-sensing evapotranspiration models, such as the Surface Energy Balance Algorithm for Land and the Surface Energy Balance System, LST is a critical parameter that can directly influence the accuracy and integrity of final results. However, clouds and other atmospheric disturbances, which cover a large area throughout most of the year, are read as blank values by these programs, creating a problem. To solve this, a number of algorithms have been proposed to reconstruct LST data, but few can be used to evaluate flat and relatively fragmented landscape regions, such as the Yellow River Delta in China. Here, we conducted an analysis where we considered the LST of a flat area to be mainly influenced by land cover and other environmental elements (e.g. soil moisture). We used maps such as land cover, normalized difference vegetation index, and MODIS band 7 as additional data in the reconstruction model. All of the LST pixels we used were randomly divided into two parts: one part was used to train the model, and the other part was used to validate the calculated results. Three different methods have been developed to reconstruct LST data - linear regression, regression tree (RT) analysis, and artificial neural networks. In comparing these methods, we found that the RT method is able to estimate the LST of MODIS pixels with the greatest accuracy, and that it is both convenient and useful for reconstructing the LST map in flat and fragmented regions.
Two stable adaptive fuzzy-neural control schemes within the indirect and direct frameworks are proposed to suppress the wing rock occurring at high angles of attack. In the two control strategies, a fuzzy neural network (FNN) with any bounded nonconstant piecewise continuous membership function is used to approximate the system nonlinear dynamics and external disturbances. Differently from the existing techniques, the parameters of the fuzzy membership functions are determined based on the recently developed fuzzy-neural algorithm named online sequential fuzzy extreme learning machine (OS-Fuzzy-ELM) where the fuzzy membership function parameters need not be adjusted and could randomly be generated according to any given continuous probability distribution without any prior knowledge. This simplifies the design of the controllers. Furthermore to ensure stable control performance, the tuning laws of the consequent parameters are derived using the projection algorithm and Lyapunov stability theorem. The merits of the proposed control schemes lie in the simplicity, robustness and stability, which manifests they can be applied for online learning and real-time control. In order to evaluate the performance of the proposed two control schemes, a comparison between a neural control, a fuzzy control and a fuzzy-neural control is carried out on various initial conditions. Results indicate the performance of the proposed controllers is superior using the randomly assigned fuzzy membership function parameters. (C) 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.
This paper investigates the distributed tracking problem for a class of high-order stochastic nonlinear multi-agent systems where the subsystem of each agent is driven by nonlinear drift and diffusion terms. For the case where the graph topology is directed and the leader is the neighbor of only a small portion of followers, a new distributed integrator backstepping design method is proposed, and distributed tracking control laws are designed, which can effectively deal with the interactions among agents and coupling terms. By using the algebra graph theory and stochastic analysis, it is shown that the closed-loop system has an almost surely unique solution on [0, infinity), all the states of the closed-loop system are bounded in probability, and the tracking errors can be tuned to arbitrarily small with a tunable exponential converge rate. The efficiency of the tracking controller is demonstrated by a simulation example. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper addresses the model-free nonlinear optimal control problem based on data by introducing the reinforcement learning (RL) technique. It is known that the nonlinear optimal control problem relies on the solution of the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation, which is a nonlinear partial differential equation that is generally impossible to be solved analytically. Even worse, most practical systems are too complicated to establish an accurate mathematical model. To overcome these difficulties, we propose a data-based approximate policy iteration (API) method by using real system data rather than a system model. Firstly, a model-free policy iteration algorithm is derived and its convergence is proved. The implementation of the algorithm is based on the actor-critic structure, where actor and critic neural networks (NNs) are employed to approximate the control policy and cost function, respectively. To update the weights of actor and critic NNs, a least-square approach is developed based on the method of weighted residuals. The data-based API is an off-policy RL method, where the "exploration" is improved by arbitrarily sampling data on the state and input domain. Finally, we test the data-based API control design method on a simple nonlinear system, and further apply it to a rotational/translational actuator system. The simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The prediction of future values of time series is a challenging task in many fields. In particular, making prediction based on short-term data is believed to be difficult. Here, we propose a method to predict systems' low-dimensional dynamics from high-dimensional but short-term data. Intuitively, it can be considered as a transformation from the inter-variable information of the observed high-dimensional data into the corresponding low-dimensional but long-term data, thereby equivalent to prediction of time series data. Technically, this method can be viewed as an inverse implementation of delayed embedding reconstruction. Both methods and algorithms are developed. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the theoretical result, benchmark examples and real-world problems from various fields are studied.
False alarm and misdetected precipitation are prominent drawbacks of high-resolution satellite precipitation datasets, and they usually lead to serious uncertainty in hydrological and meteorological applications. In order to provide accurate rain area delineation for retrieving high-resolution precipitation datasets using satellite microwave observations, a probabilistic neural network (PNN)-based rain area delineation method was developed with rain gauge observations over the Yangtze River Basin and three parameters, including polarization corrected temperature at 85 GHz, difference of brightness temperature at vertically polarized 37 and 19 GHz channels (termed as TB37V and TB19V, respectively) and the sum of TB37V and TB19V derived from the observations of the Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) Microwave Imager (TMI). The PNN method was validated with independent samples, and the performance of this method was compared with dynamic cluster K-means method, TRMM Microwave Imager (TMI) Level 2 Hydrometeor Profile Product and the threshold method used in the Scatter Index (SI), a widely used microwave-based precipitation retrieval algorithm. Independent validation indicated that the PNN method can provide more reasonable rain areas than the other three methods. Furthermore, the precipitation volumes estimated by the SI algorithm were significantly improved by substituting the PNN method for the threshold method in the traditional SI algorithm. This study suggests that PNN is a promising way to obtain reasonable rain areas with satellite observations, and the development of an accurate rain area delineation method deserves more attention for improving the accuracy of satellite precipitation datasets.
The objective of this study was comparative study of artificial neural networks (ANN) and wavelet artificial neural networks (WANN) for time-series groundwater depth data (GWD) forecasting with various curve fractal dimensions. The paper offered a better method of revealing the change characteristics of GWD. Time series prediction based on ANN algorithms is fundamentally difficult to capture the data change details, when the time-series GWD data changes are more complex. For this purpose, Wavelet analysis and fractal theory methods are proposed to link to ANN models in predicting GWD and analysis the change characteristics. The trend and random components were separated from the original time-series GWD using wavelet methods. The fractal dimension is convenient for quantitatively describing the irregularity or randomness of time series data. Three types of training algorithms for ANN and WANN models using a Mallat decomposition algorithm were investigated as case study at three sites in the Ganzhou region of northwest China to find an optimal model that is suitable for certain characteristics of time-series GWD data. The simulation results indicate that both WANN and ANN models with the Bayesian regularization algorithm are accurate in reproducing GWD at sites with smaller fractal dimensions. However, WANN models alone are suitable for sites at which the fractal dimension of the wavelet decomposition detail components is larger. Prediction error is also greater when the fractal dimension is larger.
Control gains play an important role in the control of a natural or a technical system since they reflect how much resource is required to optimize a certain control objective. This paper is concerned with the controllability of neuronal networks with constraints on the average value of the control gains injected in driver nodes, which are in accordance with engineering and biological backgrounds. In order to deal with the constraints on control gains, the controllability problem is transformed into a constrained optimization problem (COP). The introduction of the constraints on the control gains unavoidably leads to substantial difficulty in finding feasible as well as refining solutions. As such, a modified dynamic hybrid framework (MDyHF) is developed to solve this COP, based on an adaptive differential evolution and the concept of Pareto dominance. By comparing with statistical methods and several recently reported constrained optimization evolutionary algorithms (COEAs), we show that our proposed MDyHF is competitive and promising in studying the controllability of neuronal networks. Based on the MDyHF, we proceed to show the controlling regions under different levels of constraints. It is revealed that we should allocate the control gains economically when strong constraints are considered. In addition, it is found that as the constraints become more restrictive, the driver nodes are more likely to be selected from the nodes with a large degree. The results and methods presented in this paper will provide useful insights into developing new techniques to control a realistic complex network efficiently.
In this paper, a new iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is developed to solve optimal control problems for infinite horizon discrete-time nonlinear systems with finite approximation errors. First, a new generalized value iteration algorithm of ADP is developed to make the iterative performance index function converge to the solution of the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. The generalized value iteration algorithm permits an arbitrary positive semi-definite function to initialize it, which overcomes the disadvantage of traditional value iteration algorithms. When the iterative control law and iterative performance index function in each iteration cannot accurately be obtained, for the first time a new "design method of the convergence criteria" for the finite-approximation-error-based generalized value iteration algorithm is established. A suitable approximation error can be designed adaptively to make the iterative performance index function converge to a finite neighborhood of the optimal performance index function. Neural networks are used to implement the iterative ADP algorithm. Finally, two simulation examples are given to illustrate the performance of the developed method.
In this paper, the infinite horizon optimal robust guaranteed cost control of continuous-time uncertain nonlinear systems is investigated using neural-network-based online solution of Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation. By establishing an appropriate bounded function and defining a modified cost function, the optimal robust guaranteed cost control problem is transformed into an optimal control problem. It can be observed that the optimal cost function of the nominal system is nothing but the optimal guaranteed cost of the original uncertain system. A critic neural network is constructed to facilitate the solution of the modified HJB equation corresponding to the nominal system. More importantly, an additional stabilizing term is introduced for helping to verify the stability, which reinforces the updating process of the weight vector and reduces the requirement of an initial stabilizing control. The uniform ultimate boundedness of the closed-loop system is analyzed by using the Lyapunov approach as well. Two simulation examples are provided to verify the effectiveness of the present control approach.
Atomic blocks, a high-level language construct that allows programmers to explicitly specify the atomicity of operations without worrying about the implementations, are a promising approach that simplifies concurrent programming. On the other hand, temporal logic is a successful model in logic programming and concurrency verification, but none of existing temporal programming models supports concurrent programming with atomic blocks yet. In this paper, we propose a temporal programming model (alpha PTL) which extends the projection temporal logic (PTL) to support concurrent programming with atomic blocks. The novel construct that formulates atomic execution of code blocks, which we call atomic interval formulas, is always interpreted over two consecutive states, with the internal states of the block being abstracted away. We show that the framing mechanism in projection temporal logic also works in the new model, which consequently supports our development of an executive language. The language supports concurrency by introducing a loose interleaving semantics which tracks only the mutual exclusion between atomic blocks. We demonstrate the usage of alpha PTL by modeling and verifying both the fine-grained and coarse-grained concurrency.
Building intelligent systems that are capable of extracting high-level representations from high-dimensional sensory data lies at the core of solving many computer vision-related tasks. We propose the multispectral neural networks (MSNN) to learn features from multicolumn deep neural networks and embed the penultimate hierarchical discriminative manifolds into a compact representation. The low-dimensional embedding explores the complementary property of different views wherein the distribution of each view is sufficiently smooth and hence achieves robustness, given few labeled training data. Our experiments show that spectrally embedding several deep neural networks can explore the optimum output from the multicolumn networks and consistently decrease the error rate compared with a single deep network.
This paper investigates the robust synchronization problem of chaotic Lur'e systems with external disturbance using sampled-data controller. The new method is based on a novel construction of piecewise differentiable Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional (LKF) in the framework of an input delay approach. Compared with existing works, the new LKF makes full use of the information on the nonlinear part of the system and introduces the novel terms, which guarantees the positive of the whole LKF. The output feedback synchronization controller is presented to not only guarantee stable synchronization, but also reduce the effect of external disturbance to an norm constraint. The proposed controller can be obtained by solving the linear matrix inequality problem. The effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated by the numerical simulations of Chua's circuit.
Structural health monitoring has received remarkable attention due to the arising structural safety problems. Most of these structural health problems are accumulative damages such as slight changes in structural deformations which are very hard to be detected. In addition, the complexity of real structure and environmental noises make structural health monitoring more difficult. Existing methods largely use various types of sensors to collect useful parameters and then train a machine learning model to diagnose damage level and location, in which a large amount of training data are needed for the model training, while the labeled data are rare in the real world. To overcome this problem, sparse coding is employed in this paper to achieve structural health monitoring of a bridge equipped with a wireless sensor network, so that a large amount of unlabeled examples can be used to train a feature extractor based on the sparse coding algorithm. Features learned from sparse coding are then used to train a neural network classifier to distinguish different statuses of the bridge. Experimental results show the sparse coding-based deep learning algorithm achieves higher accuracy for structural health monitoring under the same level of environmental noises, compared with some existing methods.
In this work, we define cost-free learning (CFL) formally in comparison with cost-sensitive learning (CSL). The main difference between them is that a CFL approach seeks optimal classification results without requiring any cost information, even in the class imbalance problem. In fact, several CFL approaches exist in the related studies, such as sampling and some criteria-based approaches. However, to our best knowledge, none of the existing CFL and CSL approaches are able to process the abstaining classifications properly when no information is given about errors and rejects. Based on information theory, we propose a novel CFL which seeks to maximize normalized mutual information of the targets and the decision outputs of classifiers. Using the strategy, we can handle binary/multi-class classifications with/without abstaining. Significant features are observed from the new strategy. While the degree of class imbalance is changing, the proposed strategy is able to balance the errors and rejects accordingly and automatically. Another advantage of the strategy is its ability of deriving optimal rejection thresholds for abstaining classifications and the "equivalent" costs in binary classifications. The connection between rejection thresholds and ROC curve is explored. Empirical investigation is made on several benchmark data sets in comparison with other existing approaches. The classification results demonstrate a promising perspective of the strategy in machine learning.
Adjusting parameters iteratively is a traditional way of training neural networks, and the Rough RBF Neural Networks (R-RBF-NN) follows the same idea. However, this idea has many disadvantages, for instance, the training accuracy and generalization accuracy etc. So how to change this condition is a hot topic in Academics. On the basis of Extreme Learning Machine (ELM), this paper proposes a Weighted Regularized Extreme Learning Machine (WRELM), taking into account both minimizing structured risk and weighted least-squares principle, to train R-RBF-NN. The traditional iterative training method is replaced by the minimal norm least-squares solution of general linear system. The method proposed in this paper, increasing controllability of the entire learning process and considering the structured risk and empirical risk, can improve the performance of learning and generalization. Experiments show that it can reach a very superior performance in both time and accuracy when WRELM trains the Rough RBF Neural Networks in pattern classification and function regression, especially in pattern classification, which can improve the generalization accuracy more than 3.36 % compared with ELM. Obviously, the performance of the method proposed in this paper is better than the traditional methods.
Population agglomeration of a particular city provides evidence of its urbanization quality, as well as its appeal for immigration from rural areas to developed areas. The attractive factors for population agglomeration in urban areas are analyzed using a new perspective of the complex ecological niche (CEN). The CEN involves three groups of key elements: natural environment, economic flow and social culture. An indicator system was designed for the urban population CEN with three sub-CENs as second-level indicators, i.e., the environmental ecological niche, the social ecological niche and the economic ecological niche, each of which has five third-level measurable indicators. Another indicator was designed for evaluating the balance degree among the three sub-CENs. A case study of 220 Chinese cities during the years 2000-2011 was performed using the proposed indicators. The sub-CENs of this group of Chinese cities were positively correlated with the state of development of the cities. But the significance of the correlation was lower for the environmental ecological niche which changes less than the other two sub-CENs. The association between the three sub-CENs weakened most cities in south-eastern China, compared to cities elsewhere. Finally, analysis of the relationship between urban population agglomeration and the environmental ecological niche revealed by partial correlation analysis and regression analysis implied that there is a threshold in the development process of the environmental ecological niche. That threshold differentiates the negative and positive impacts upon urban agglomeration. Most Chinese cities are still in the negative phase. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Eight-dimensional (8D) transition-state wave packet simulations have been performed on two latest potential energy surfaces (PES), the Zhou-Fu-Wang-Collins-Zhang (ZFWCZ) PES [Y. Zhou, B. Fu, C. Wang, M. A. Collins, and D. H. Zhang, J. Chem. Phys. 134, 064323 (2011)] and the Xu-ChenZhang (XCZ)-neural networks (NN) PES [X. Xu, J. Chen, and D. H. Zhang, Chin. J. Chem. Phys. 27, 373 (2014)]. Reaction rate constants for both the H+CH4 reaction and the H-2+CH3 reaction are calculated. Simulations of the H+CH4 reaction based on the XCZ-NN PES show that the ZFWCZ PES predicts rate constants with reasonable high accuracy for low temperatures while leads to slightly lower results for high temperatures, in line with the distribution of interpolation error associated with the ZFWCZ PES. The 8D H+CH4 rate constants derived on the ZFWCZ PES compare well with full-dimensional 12D results based on the equivalent m-ZFWCZ PES, with a maximum relative difference of no more than 20%. Additionally, very good agreement is shown by comparing the 8D XCZ-NN rate constants with the 12D results obtained on the ZFWCZ-WM PES, after considering the difference in static barrier height between these two PESs. The reaction rate constants calculated for the H-2+CH3 reaction are found to be in good consistency with experimental observations. (c) 2014 AIP Publishing LLC.
This study studies second-order consensus of multi-agent systems with noise in a leaderless architecture. Two distributed consensus algorithms are designed and sufficient conditions are established, which character how much the noise intensity or the delay multi-agent systems can stand such that second-order consensus can be reached almost surely for a given coupling strength and topology structure. Simulations are given to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed consensus algorithms.
Reversible deformation of a machine holds enormous promise across many scientific areas ranging from mechanical engineering to applied physics. So far, such capabilities are still hard to achieve through conventional rigid materials or depending mainly on elastomeric materials, which however own rather limited performances and require complicated manipulations. Here, we show a basic strategy which is fundamentally different from the existing ones to realize large scale reversible deformation through controlling the working materials via the synthetically chemical-electrical mechanism (SCHEME). Such activity incorporates an object of liquid metal gallium whose surface area could spread up to five times of its original size and vice versa under low energy consumption. Particularly, the alterable surface tension based on combination of chemical dissolution and electrochemical oxidation is ascribed to the reversible shape transformation, which works much more flexible than many former deformation principles through converting electrical energy into mechanical movement. A series of very unusual phenomena regarding the reversible configurational shifts are disclosed with dominant factors clarified. This study opens a generalized way to combine the liquid metal serving as shape-variable element with the SCHEME to compose functional soft machines, which implies huge potential for developing future smart robots to fulfill various complicated tasks.
At rest, the brain's sensorimotor and higher cognitive systems engage in organized patterns of correlated activity forming resting-state networks. An important empirical question is how functional connectivity and structural connectivity within and between resting-state networks change with age. In this study we use network modeling techniques to identify significant changes in network organization across the human lifespan. The results of this study demonstrate that whole-brain functional and structural connectivity both exhibit reorganization with age. On average, functional connections within resting-state networks weaken in magnitude while connections between resting-state networks tend to increase. These changes can be localized to a small subset of functional connections that exhibit systematic changes across the lifespan. Collectively, changes in functional connectivity are also manifest at a system-wide level, as components of the control, default mode, saliency/ventral attention, dorsal attention, and visual networks become less functionally cohesive, as evidenced by decreased component modularity. Paralleling this functional reorganization is a decrease in the density and weight of anatomical white-matter connections. Hub regions are particularly affected by these changes, and the capacity of those regions to communicate with other regions exhibits a lifelong pattern of decline. Finally, the relationship between functional connectivity and structural connectivity also appears to change with age; functional connectivity along multi-step structural paths tends to be stronger in older subjects than in younger subjects. Overall, our analysis points to age-related changes in inter-regional communication unfolding within and between resting-state networks. (c) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This paper develops a new control approach for trajectory tracking of mobile robots. For the purpose of tracking trajectory, the error dynamics of a mobile robot are divided into a first-order subsystem and a second-order subsystem by using a cascaded control design. Firstly, a global finite-time control law of the angular velocity is designed for the first-order system in order to stabilize the angle error of mobile robots. Subsequently, a finite-time sliding mode control law of forward velocity is synthesized, which guarantees the global stability of the second-order subsystem. Furthermore, the global uniform stability of the whole closed-loop system is analyzed by employing cascaded control theory, and some sufficient conditions are derived. Finally, the proposed control algorithm is applied to mobile robots, where simulation results demonstrate good convergence and performance. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this study, a novel online adaptive dynamic programming (ADP)-based algorithm is developed for solving the optimal control problem of affine non-linear continuous-time systems with unknown internal dynamics. The present algorithm employs an observer-critic architecture to approximate the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. Two neural networks (NNs) are used in this architecture: an NN state observer is constructed to estimate the unknown system dynamics and a critic NN is designed to derive the optimal control instead of typical action-critic dual networks employed in traditional ADP algorithms. Based on the developed architecture, the observer NN and the critic NN are tuned simultaneously. Meanwhile, unlike existing tuning laws for the critic, the newly developed critic update rule not only ensures convergence of the critic to the optimal control but also guarantees stability of the closed-loop system. No initial stabilising control is required, and by using recorded and instantaneous data simultaneously for the adaptation of the critic, the restrictive persistence of excitation condition is relaxed. In addition, Lyapunov direct method is utilised to demonstrate the uniform ultimate boundedness of the weights of the observer NN and the critic NN. Finally, an example is provided to verify the effectiveness of the present approach.
In a lot of practical machine learning applications, such as web page classification, protein shape classification, unlabelled instances are easy to obtain, but labelled instances are rather too expensive to get. Thus, recently, semi-supervised learning (SSL) methods including graph-based algorithms have attracted many interests from researchers. However, most of these algorithms used the Gaussian function to calculate weights of the edge of the graph. In this paper, we proposed a novel weight for graph-based semi-supervised algorithms. In this new algorithm, the label information is added from problem into SSL algorithm, and the geodesic distance is utilized instead of Euclidean distance to calculate the distance between two instances. Furthermore, class prior knowledge is also added from problem into the target function. In this paper, we focus on learning with local and global consistency. We found that the effect of class prior knowledge maybe different between under low-label rate and high-label rate. Experiments on two University of California Irvine (UCI) data sets and United States Postal Service handwritten digit recognition show that our proposed algorithm is really effective.
In this paper, an equivalent control based sliding mode control is proposed for single input linear Markovian jump systems which guarantees the asymptotical stability. Furthermore, by using the stochastic system theory, a multi-step state transition conditional probability function is introduced for the continuous Markovian process, which is used to define the reaching and sliding probabilities. Furthermore, the formulas for calculating reaching and sliding probabilities are derived for situations where the control force may not be strong enough to ensure the fully asymptotical stability. Extensive simulations are conducted to validate the theoretical results and show the relationship between the control force and reaching and sliding probabilities. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recent research results indicate that individual awareness can play an important influence on epidemic spreading in networks. By local stability analysis, a significant conclusion is that the embedded awareness in an epidemic network can increase its epidemic threshold. In this paper, by using limit theory and dynamical system theory, we further give global stability analysis of a susceptible-infected-susceptible (SIS) epidemic model on networks with awareness. Results show that the obtained epidemic threshold is also a global stability condition for its endemic equilibrium, which implies the embedded awareness can enhance the epidemic threshold globally. Some numerical examples are presented to verify the theoretical results.
This paper studies a semi-global asymptotic consensus problem of nonlinear multi-agent systems with local actuating disturbances. For a modest nonlinear scenario, a consensus protocol is proposed based on a viable two-layer network. The consensus problem is treated as distributed output regulation, which is resolved by a joint decomposition of the zero-error constraint inputs and a configuration of a flexible internal model network. An illustrative example is also given to show the efficiency of the two-layer networked design. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The arid region of northwest China is a large area with complex topography. Hydrological research is limited by scarcity and uneven distribution of rain gauges. Satellite precipitation products provide wide coverage and high spatial-temporal resolutions, but the accuracy needs to be evaluated before application. In this paper, the reliability of four satellite precipitation products (CMORPH [Climate Prediction Center's morphing technique], PERSIANN [Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information using Artificial Neural Networks], TRMM[Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission] 3B42, and TRMM 3B43) were evaluated through comparison with ground data or reported values on daily, monthly, and annual scales from 2003 to 2010. Indices including frequency bias index, probability of detection, and false alarm ratio were used to evaluate recorded precipitation occurrences; relative mean bias, the correlation coefficient, and the Nash coefficient were used to assess precipitation amount. Satellite precipitation products were more accurate in the warm than in the cold season, and performed better in northern Xinjiang than in other regions during the cold season. CMORPH and PERSIANN tended to overestimate precipitation. TRMM 3B42 and TRMM 3B43 performed best because the former most accurately detected precipitation occurrences on a daily scale, and both produced accurate space-time distribution of precipitation and the best consistency with rain gauge observations. Only a few monthly precipitation values for TRMM 3B42 and TRMM 3B43, and annual precipitation values for TRMM 3B42 were with satisfactory precision. TRMM3B42 and TRMM 3B43 are therefore recommended, but correction will be needed before application. Factors including elevation, relative relief, longitude, and latitude had significant effects on the performance of satellite precipitation products, and these factors may be helpful in correcting satellite precipitation.
We present a newly developed version of BayeSED, a general Bayesian approach to the spectral energy distribution (SED) fitting of galaxies. The new BayeSED code has been systematically tested on a mock sample of galaxies. The comparison between the estimated and input values of the parameters shows that BayeSED can recover the physical parameters of galaxies reasonably well. We then applied BayeSED to interpret the SEDs of a large K-s-selected sample of galaxies in the COSMOS/UltraVISTA field with stellar population synthesis models. Using the new BayeSED code, a Bayesian model comparison of stellar population synthesis models has been performed for the first time. We found that the 2003 model by Bruzual & Charlot, statistically speaking, has greater Bayesian evidence than the 2005 model by Maraston for the K-s-selected sample. In addition, while setting the stellar metallicity as a free parameter obviously increases the Bayesian evidence of both models, varying the initial mass function has a notable effect only on the Maraston model. Meanwhile, the physical parameters estimated with BayeSED are found to be generally consistent with those obtained using the popular grid-based FAST code, while the former parameters exhibit more natural distributions. Based on the estimated physical parameters of the galaxies in the sample, we qualitatively classified the galaxies in the sample into five populations that may represent galaxies at different evolution stages or in different environments. We conclude that BayeSED could be a reliable and powerful tool for investigating the formation and evolution of galaxies from the rich multi-wavelength observations currently available.
This study proposes a self-adaptive GA-aided multi-objective ecological reservoir operation model (SMEROM) and applies it to water quality management in the Xiangxi River near to the Three Gorges Reservoir, China. The SMEROM integrates statistical water quality models, multi-objective reservoir operations, and a self-adaptive GA within a general framework. Among them, the statistical water quality models of the Xiangxi River are formulated to deal with the relationships between reservoir operation and water quality, which are embedded in constraints of the SMEROM. The multiple objective functions, including maximizing hydropower generation, minimizing loss of flood control, minimizing rate of flood risk, maximizing the average remaining capacity of flood control and maximizing the benefit of shipping, are considered simultaneously to obtain comprehensive benefit among the environment, society and economy. The weighting method is employed to convert the multiple objectives to a single objective. To solve the complex SMEROM, an improved self-adaptive GA is employed through incorporating simulated binary crossover and self-adaptive mutation. To demonstrate the advantage of the developed SMEROM model, the solutions through ecological reservoir operation are compared with those through the traditional reservoir operation and the practical operation in 2011, in terms of water quality, reservoir operation and objective function values. The results show that most of benefit in the ecological operation is better than that in the traditional or practical operations except for the hydropower benefit and loss benefit of flood control. This is because flood control and environmental protection are reasonably considered in the ecological operation. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Access control mechanisms (ACMs) have been widely used by operating systems (OSes) to protect information security. However, it is often challenging to evaluate and compare the quality of protection (QoP) of ACMs, especially when they are deployed on different OS platforms. This article presents an approach to quantitatively measure and compare the quality of ACMs, which provides useful information to support OS administrators and users to choose ACMs that fit with their security needs.
Based on the technical design requirements of China Fusion Engineering Test Reactor (CFETR) blanket remote handling (RH) maintenance, this paper focus on the control method of achieving high synchronization accuracy of electro-hydraulic servo system. Based on fuzzy control theory and practical experience, a fuzzy adaptive proportional-derivative (PD) controller was designed. Then a more precise co-simulation model was established with AMESim/Simulink. Through the analysis of simulation results, a fuzzy adaptive PD control algorithm was designed as the core strategy of electro-hydraulic servo control system. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The successful use of near-surface anomalous signals, exhibited in all petroliferous basins, must lead to great development in petroleum exploration. The elementary equations and methods for objective and accurate separation of anomalous signals from background signals are the most critical requirements in these surface geochemical surveys. Therefore, we have worked up a series of fundamental equations and methods for eliminating surface interference and influences of geological conditions on anomaly intensities and recognizing multi-type anomalies of uni- and multi-variates, by using statistics, fractal geometry, wavelet analysis and artificial neural networks. These equations illustrate that the threshold (i.e. the boundary between background and micro-seepage anomalies) is determined by means, standard deviations and prior probabilities of background and micro-seepage anomalies when multi-normality is met, and that the traditional equation for the threshold (background mean plus one or two standard deviations) is not correct. In the face of many new equations and methods, it is important how to comprehensively use them to resolve the problems in geochemical surveys. A geochemical survey in the south slope of the Dongying depression, eastern China provides a good opportunity to address this issue. The anomalies obtained with the traditional equation do not reflect oil/gas fields. This study reveals three problems in the previous data-processing and anomaly recognition: (1) the surface interference caused by the variation of soil composition was not identified and removed, (2) the influence of caprock thickness on anomaly intensities was not revealed and eliminated, and (3) the micro-seepage (related to oil/gas pools) and seepage (related to faults) anomalies were not separated and correctly recognized. Furthermore, the interaction of these problems makes the data-processing and anomaly recognition more difficult. To ensure effective elimination of the surface interference and caprock thickness influence and correct recognition of uni-variate anomalies, we iteratively applied the wavelet-analysis-based methods to eliminate the surface interference and caprock thickness influence, and statistical methods with new fundamental equations to recognize uni-variate anomalies of seepage and microseepage. And then, multi-variate anomalies of seepage and microseepage were recognized with our fundamental equations and the corresponding methods. In the results, the seepage anomalies display a string-bead-shaped pattern and are distributed along faults, and the micro-seepage anomalies are ring-shaped and coincide with oil/gas pools, sandbodies or traps. Therefore, reprocessing of geochemical data with our fundamental equations and methods combined in an iterative manner can resolve the complicated problems in data-processing and anomaly recognition and thus greatly improve the predictive capability of surface geochemical survey. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Classifier ensemble has been broadly studied in two prevalent directions, i.e., to diversely generate classifier components, and to sparsely combine multiple classifiers. While most current approaches are emphasized on either sparsity or diversity only, we investigate classifier ensemble focused on both in this paper. We formulate the classifier ensemble problem with the sparsity and diversity learning in a general mathematical framework, which proves beneficial for grouping classifiers. In particular, derived from the error-ambiguity decomposition, we design a convex ensemble diversity measure. Consequently, accuracy loss, sparseness regularization, and diversity measure can be balanced and combined in a convex quadratic programming problem. We prove that the final convex optimization leads to a closed-form solution, making it very appealing for real ensemble learning problems. We compare our proposed novel method with other conventional ensemble methods such as Bagging, least squares combination, sparsity learning, and AdaBoost, extensively on a variety of UCI benchmark data sets and the Pascal Large Scale Learning Challenge 2008 webspam data. Experimental results confirm that our approach has very promising performance. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a novel data-driven stable iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is developed to solve optimal temperature control problems for water-gas shift (WGS) reaction systems. According to the system data, neural networks (NNs) are used to construct the dynamics of the WGS system and solve the reference control, respectively, where the mathematical model of the WGS system is unnecessary. Considering the reconstruction errors of NNs and the disturbances of the system and control input, a new stable iterative ADP algorithm is developed to obtain the optimal control law. The convergence property is developed to guarantee that the iterative performance index function converges to a finite neighborhood of the optimal performance index function. The stability property is developed to guarantee that each of the iterative control laws can make the tracking error uniformly ultimately bounded (UUB). NNs are developed to implement the stable iterative ADP algorithm. Finally, numerical results are given to illustrate the effectiveness of the developed method.
A key issue of quantitative investment (QI) product design is how to select representative features for stock prediction. However, existing stock prediction models adopt feature selection algorithms that rely on correlation analysis. This paper is the first to apply observational data-based causal analysis to stock prediction. Causalities represent direct influences between various stock features (important for stock analysis), while correlations cannot distinguish direct influences from indirect ones. This study proposes the causal feature selection (CFS) algorithm to select more representative features for better stock prediction modeling. CFS first identifies causalities between variables and then, based on the results, generates a feature subset. Based on 13-year data from the Shanghai Stock Exchanges, comparative experiments were conducted between CFS and three well-known feature selection algorithms, namely, principal component analysis (PCA), decision trees (DT; CART), and the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO). CFS performs best in terms of accuracy and precision in most cases when combined with each of the seven baseline models, and identifies 18 important consistent features. In conclusion, CFS has considerable potential to improve the development of QI product. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Robust control design is a central problem for quantum systems in practical implementation and applications. In this study, the authors present a systematic methodology of sampling-based learning control via path planning for state transfer of quantum systems with uncertainties and bounded controls. The authors formulate the control problem of a quantum system with bounded uncertainties as the problem of steering this system to a target state with bounded controls via an optimised evolution path to achieve a satisfactory level of fidelity. To find the optimised path (controls), the authors present a combined design method of sampling-based learning control and path planning. The numerical results on an example of a four-level quantum system show the effectiveness of the proposed learning control design method. The method provides a useful design approach for learning control of quantum systems with uncertainties.
Establishing a universal watershed-scale erosion and sediment yield prediction model represents a frontier field in erosion and soil/water conservation. The research presented here was conducted on the Chabagou watershed, which is located in the first sub-region of the hill-gully area of the Loess Plateau, China. A back-propagation artificial neural model for watershed-scale erosion and sediment yield was established, with the accuracy of the model, then compared with that of multiple linear regression. The sensitivity degree of various factors to erosion and sediment yield was quantitatively analysed using the default factor test. On the basis of the sensitive factors and the fractal information dimension, the piecewise prediction model for erosion and sediment yield of individual rainfall events was established and further verified. The results revealed the back-propagation artificial neural network model to perform better than the multiple linear regression model in terms of predicting the erosion modulus, with the former able to effectively characterize dynamic changes in sediment yield under comprehensive factor conditions. The sensitivity of runoff erosion power and runoff depth to the erosion and sediment yield associated with individual rainfall events was found to be related to the complexity of surface topography. The characteristics of such a hydrological response are thus closely related to topography. When the fractal information dimension is greater than the topographic threshold, the accuracy of prediction using runoff erosion power is higher than that of using runoff depth. In contrast, when the fractal information dimension is smaller than the topographic threshold, the accuracy of prediction using runoff depth is higher than that of using runoff erosion power. The developed piecewise prediction model for watershed-scale erosion and sediment yield of individual rainfall events, which introduces runoff erosion power and runoff depth using the fractal information dimension as a boundary, can be considered feasible and reliable and has a high prediction accuracy. Copyright (c) 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The resonant frequency shifts of a circular membrane caused by an adsorbate are the sensing mechanism for a drum resonator. The adsorbate mass and position are the two major (unknown) parameters determining the resonant frequency shifts. There are infinite combinations of mass and position which can cause the same shift of one resonant frequency. Finding the mass and position of an adsorbate from the experimentally measured resonant frequencies forms an inverse problem. This study presents a straightforward method to determine the adsorbate mass and position by using the changes of two resonant frequencies. Because detecting the position of an adsorbate can be extremely difficult, especially when the adsorbate is as small as an atom or a molecule, this new inverse problem-solving method should be of some help to the mass resonator sensor application of detecting a single adsorbate. How to apply this method to the case of multiple adsorbates is also discussed.
Visual tracking is a popular and challenging topic in computer vision and robotics. Owing to changes in the appearance of the target and complicated variations that may occur in various scenes, online learning scheme is necessary for advanced visual tracking framework to adopt. This paper briefly introduces the challenges and applications of visual tracking and focuses on discussing the state-of-the-art online-learning-based tracking methods by category. We provide detail descriptions of representative methods in each category, and examine their pros and cons. Moreover, several most representative algorithms are implemented to provide quantitative reference. At last, we outline several trends for future visual tracking research.
Water is a fundamental element in urban environments, and water body extraction is important for landscape and urban planning. Remote sensing has increasingly been used for water body extraction; however, in urban environments, this kind of approaches is challenging because of the significant within-class spectral variance in water areas and the presence of complex ground features. The objective of this study is to develop an automatic method that could improve water body extraction in urban environments from moderate spatial resolution satellite images. Central to our method is the combined use of multiscale extractions and spectral mixture analysis techniques in adaptive local regions. Specifically, we first calculate the NDWI image from experimental images for selecting water sample pixels. Second, on the basis of the selected water pixels, we apply an improved spectral mixture analysis technique on the experimental image to get water abundance of every pixel, and segment the abundance image to extract water bodies at the global scale. Third, in a similar manner, we iteratively conduct the water body extraction in multiscale local regions to refine the water bodies. Finally, the final result of water bodies is obtained when a stopping criterion is satisfied. We have implemented this method to produce water maps from an ALOS/AVNIR-2 image and a Terra/ASTER image covering urban areas. The experimental results illustrate that the proposed method has substantially outperformed two related methods that use the NDWI-based thresholding and the SVM classification for the entire image.
The current trend in social media analysis and application is to use the pre-defined features and devoted to the later model development modules to meet the end tasks. Representation learning has been a fundamental problem in machine learning, and widely recognized as critical to the performance of end tasks. In this paper, we provide evidence that specially learned features will addresses the diverse, heterogeneous, and collective characteristics of social media data. Therefore, we propose to transfer the focus from the model development to latent feature learning, and present a unified framework of latent feature learning on social media. To address the noisy, diverse, heterogeneous, and interconnected characteristics of social media data, the popular deep learning is employed due to its excellent abstract abilities. In particular, we instantiate the proposed framework by (1) designing a novel relational generative deep learning model to solve the social media link analysis task, and (2) developing a multimodal deep learning to lambda rank model towards the social image retrieval task. We show that the derived latent features lead to improvement in both of the social media tasks.
In this paper, an experimental analysis of overcoming obstacle in human walking is carried out by means of a motion capture system. hi the experiment, the lower body of an adult human is divided into seven segments, and three markers are pasted to each segment with the aim to obtain moving trajectory and to calculate joint variation during walking. Moreover, kinematic data in terms of displacement, velocity and acceleration are acquired as well. In addition, ground reaction forces are measured using force sensors. Based on the experimental results, features of overcoming obstacle in human walking are analyzed. Experimental results show that the reason which leads to smooth walking can be identified as that the human has slight movement in the vertical direction during walking; the reason that human locomotion uses gravity effectively can be identified as that feet rotate around the toe joints during toe-off phase aiming at using gravitational potential energy to provide propulsion for swing phase. Furthermore, both normal walking gait and obstacle overcoming gait are characterized in a form that can provide necessary knowledge and useful databases for the implementation of motion planning and gait planning towards overcoming obstacle for humanoid robots.
In this paper, we establish a new data-based iterative optimal learning control scheme for discrete-time nonlinear systems using iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) approach and apply the developed control scheme to solve a coal gasification optimal tracking control problem. According to the system data, neural networks (NNs) are used to construct the dynamics of coal gasification process, coal quality and reference control, respectively, where the mathematical model of the system is unnecessary. The approximation errors from neural network construction of the disturbance and the controls are both considered. Via system transformation, the optimal tracking control problem with approximation errors and disturbances is effectively transformed into a two-person zero-sum optimal control problem. A new iterative ADP algorithm is then developed to obtain the optimal control laws for the transformed system. Convergence property is developed to guarantee that the performance index function converges to a finite neighborhood of the optimal performance index function, and the convergence criterion is also obtained. Finally, numerical results are given to illustrate the performance of the present method.
This paper is concerned with a new iterative theta-adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) technique to solve optimal control problems of infinite horizon discrete-time nonlinear systems. The idea is to use an iterative ADP algorithm to obtain the iterative control law which optimizes the iterative performance index function. In the present iterative theta-ADP algorithm, the condition of initial admissible control in policy iteration algorithm is avoided. It is proved that all the iterative controls obtained in the iterative theta-ADP algorithm can stabilize the nonlinear system which means that the iterative theta-ADP algorithm is feasible for implementations both online and offline. Convergence analysis of the performance index function is presented to guarantee that the iterative performance index function will converge to the optimum monotonically. Neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function and compute the optimal control policy, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the iterative theta-ADP algorithm. Finally, two simulation examples are given to illustrate the performance of the established method.
We develop a localization method to enable a team of mobile robots to search for multiple unknown transient radio sources. Because of signal source anonymity, short transmission durations, and dynamic transmission patterns, robots cannot treat the radio sources as continuous radio beacons. Moreover, robots do not know the source transmission power and have limited sensing ranges. To cope with these challenges, we pair up robots and develop a cooperative sensing model using signal strength ratios from the paired robots. We formally prove that the joint conditional posterior probability of source locations for them-robot team can be obtained by combining the pairwise joint posterior probabilities, which can be derived from signal strength ratios. Moreover, we propose a pairwise ridge walking algorithm (PRWA) to coordinate the robot pairs based on the clustering of high-probability regions and the minimization of local Shannon entropy. We have implemented and validated the algorithm under both the hardware-driven simulation and physical experiments. Experimental results show that the PRWA-based localization scheme consistently outperforms the other four heuristics.
Social activity-travel has gained more and more attention as it is a growing percentage of the whole travel. To study its generation mechanism and behavioral characteristics, social network data are usually essential. However, due to individual privacy, it is rather difficult for traditional methods such as questionnaires to collect abundant reliable data. Therefore, we propose a novel method to grow realistic social networks based on artificial transportation systems (ATS). By incorporating the activity-travel simulation provided by ATS and a new agent-based model for social interaction, the method takes into account human mobility to generate spatially embedded social networks. Human mobility shapes and impacts social networks dynamically but is usually ignored by related studies. A case study based on computational experiments is carried out to verify the method. The results indicate that the method can generate social networks with similar topological and spatial characteristics to real social networks.
This paper aims at investigating the second-order consensus problem of the multi-agent systems with nonlinear dynamics. Since it is more difficult to obtain the velocity information compared with the position information in practical application, a very simple sufficient condition for updating the coupling gain of the velocity information exchange between each agent is firstly derived to achieve asymptotic consensus. Furthermore, communication delay of each agent is considered for velocity information exchange. The velocity signal from a virtual leader is introduced to reach the second-order consensus. All the above fundamental consensus criteria are guaranteed base on algebraic graph theory, matrix theory, and Lyapunov stability method. Two simulation examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the analytical results. The results obtained in this paper can be easily applied to various cases, which can facilitate practical designs for the second-order consensus.
This note presents a host internal model (h-IM) approach to distributed output regulation of reaching nonlinear leader-following consensus. Focusing on a basic nonlinear scenario of identical (or homogeneous) agents of a normal form, it is shown that the problem is solvable as long as its interaction digraph contains a certain directed spanning tree. A constructive Lyapunov protocol is proposed by incorporating a single h-IM. The result is also demonstrated by FitzHugh-Nagumo (FHN) and Lorenz type nonlinear dynamic networks.
The broken strand of overhead ground wire (OGW), which is mainly caused by lightning strikes or the vibration of OGW, can lead to serious damage to the power grid system. Power-line maintenance work is generally carried out by specialized workers under extra-high voltage live-line conditions which involve great risks and high labor intensity. In this paper, we present a broken strand detection method which can be practically applied by maintenance robots. This method is mainly implemented in three steps. First, we obtain the region of interest (ROI) from the image acquired by the robot. Second, a histogram of an oriented gradients descriptor vector is calculated to obtain the image gradient feature in ROI. In the third step, we apply a multiclassifier which consists of two support vector machines to classify the wires into normal wire, broken strand malfunction, and obstacles on OGW. Experiment results successfully demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
In this paper, the synchronization problem of Lur'e systems with time delay is considered. Compared with some existing results on synchronization for Lur'e systems, the effect of the time delay in the feedback control on master-slave synchronization is investigated. With the introduction of a delay decomposition approach, some delay-dependent synchronization criteria are established and formulated in the form of matrix inequalities. The controller gain can be achieved by solving a set of linear matrix inequalities (LMIs). A simulation example is given to illustrate the effectiveness of synchronization criteria and the design method. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A multigrid method is proposed to solve the eigenvalue problem by the finite element method based on the combination of the multilevel correction scheme for the eigenvalue problem and the multigrid method for the boundary value problem. In this scheme, solving eigenvalue problem is transformed to a series of solutions of boundary value problems by the multigrid method on multilevel meshes and a series of solutions of eigenvalue problems on the coarsest finite element space. Besides the multigrid scheme, all other efficient iteration methods can also serve as the linear algebraic solver for the associated boundary value problems. The total computational work of this scheme can reach the optimal order as same as solving the corresponding boundary value problem. Therefore, this type of iteration scheme improves the overall efficiency of the eigenvalue problem solving. Some numerical experiments are presented to validate the efficiency of the method. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This study examines the terminal accuracy synthesis of a multi-level hybrid positioning mechanism for the feed support system in a Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Radio Telescope (FAST) project, specifically considering three types of error influence factors such as time-varying barycenter, geometric error, and structural deformation. An error model caused by a time-varying barycenter and that for the entire mechanism are first established, and the physical meaning of the latter is further explained. The three factors that influence terminal accuracy are then analyzed. An efficient approach for acquiring the terminal error boundary over the entire workspace is proposed on the basis of the vector set theory and a linear algebra method. After employing an error compensation method for the first-level mechanism through control strategy, terminal accuracy synthesis is conducted by using a nonlinear optimization algorithm. Both constraints for accuracy and weight are satisfied after introducing measurement systems. Moreover, the proposed method of accuracy analysis and synthesis can be applied to other multi-level hybrid mechanisms. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Detecting small objects such as vehicles in satellite images is a difficult problem. Many features (such as histogram of oriented gradient, local binary pattern, scale-invariant feature transform, etc.) have been used to improve the performance of object detection, but mostly in simple environments such as those on roads. Kembhavi et al. proposed that no satisfactory accuracy has been achieved in complex environments such as the City of San Francisco. Deep convolutional neural networks (DNNs) can learn rich features from the training data automatically and has achieved state-of-the-art performance in many image classification databases. Though the DNN has shown robustness to distortion, it only extracts features of the same scale, and hence is insufficient to tolerate large-scale variance of object. In this letter, we present a hybrid DNN (HDNN), by dividing the maps of the last convolutional layer and the maxpooling layer of DNN into multiple blocks of variable receptive field sizes or max-pooling field sizes, to enable the HDNN to extract variable-scale features. Comparative experimental results indicate that our proposed HDNN significantly outperforms the traditional DNN on vehicle detection.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have converged to reveal the default mode network (DMN), a constellation of regions that display co-activation during resting-state but co-deactivation during attention-demanding tasks in the brain. Here, we employed a Bayesian network (BN) analysis method to construct a directed effective connectivity model of the DMN and compared the organizational architecture and interregional directed connections under both resting-state and task-state. The analysis results indicated that the DMN was consistently organized into two closely interacting subsystems in both resting-state and task-state. The directed connections between DMN regions, however, changed significantly from the resting-state to task-state condition. The results suggest that the DMN intrinsically maintains a relatively stable structure whether at rest or performing tasks but has different information processing mechanisms under varied states.
Studies in rodents revealed that selective accumulation of Na+ channel subtypes at the axon initial segment (AIS) determines action potential (AP) initiation and backpropagation in cortical pyramidal cells (PCs); however, in human cortex, the molecular identity of Na+ channels distributed at PC axons, including the AIS and the nodes of Ranvier, remains unclear. We performed immunostaining experiments in human cortical tissues removed surgically to cure brain diseases. We found strong immunosignals of Na+ channels and two channel subtypes, Na-V 1.2 and Na-V 1.6, at the AIS of human cortical PCs. Although both channel subtypes were expressed along the entire AIS, the peak immunosignals of Na-V 1.2 and Na-V 1.6 were found at proximal and distal AIS regions, respectively. Surprisingly, in addition to the presence of Na-V 1.6 at the nodes of Ranvier, Na-V 1.2 was also found in a subpopulation of nodes in the adult human cortex, different from the absence of Na-V 1.2 in myelinated axons in rodents. Na-V 1.1 immunosignals were not detected at either the AIS or the nodes of Ranvier of PCs; however, they were expressed at interneuron axons with different distribution patterns. Further experiments revealed that parvalbumin-positive GABAergic axon cartridges selectively innervated distal AIS regions with relatively high immunosignals of Na-V 1.6 but not the proximal Na-V 1.2-enriched compartments, suggesting an important role of axo-axonic cells in regulating AP initiation in human PCs. Together, our results show that both Na-V 1.2 and Na-V 1.6 (but not Na-V 1.1) channel subtypes are expressed at the AIS and the nodes of Ranvier in adult human cortical PCs, suggesting that these channel subtypes control neuronal excitability and signal conduction in PC axons.
The most important feature of a Self-Reconfigurable Robot (SRR) is that it is reconfigurable and self-repairing. At the centre of these capabilities is autonomous docking. One difficulty for docking is the alignment between two robots. Current strategies overcome this by integrating a mechanical guiding device within the connecting mechanism. This increases the robustness of docking but compromises the flexibility of reconfiguration. In this paper, we present a new autonomous docking strategy that can overcome the drawbacks of current approaches. The new strategy uses a novel hook-type connecting mechanism and multi-sensory guidance. The hook-type connecting mechanism is strong and rigid for reliable physical connection between the modules. The multisensory docking strategy, which includes visual-sensor-guided rough positioning, Hall-sensor-guided fine positioning, and the locking between moving and target modules, guarantees robust docking without sacrificing reconfigurability. The proposed strategy is verified by docking between a worm-shaped robot and one target module, and docking among three moving robots to form a T-shaped configuration. The experimental results showed that the strategy is very effective.
Social media have experienced a spectacular rise in popularity, attracting hundreds of millions of users and generating unprecedented amount of content that increasingly contain location and place information. Collectively, the massive location information in these data provides an excellent opportunity to better understand many geographic phenomena and geospatial dynamics in a timely fashion. Recent studies capitalizing on social networking and media data show significant societal impacts in many areas including prediction of stock market and infectious disease surveillance. However, because location-based social media data are often massive, generated dynamically, and unstructured, significant computation, data, and visualization challenges need to be resolved. This research aims to demonstrate the use of massive social media data to interactively analyze spatiotemporal events across spatial and temporal scales, by establishing a data-driven framework using cyberGISgeographic information systems (GIS) based on advanced cyberinfrastructureto resolve aforementioned challenges. Specifically, FluMapperan application on the CyberGIS Gatewayis employed as a case study to demonstrate the data-driven framework and seamless integration of massive location-based social media data and spatial analytical services within the online problem solving environment of the Gateway. FluMapper presents integrated results from two complementary spatial analyses: (i) an interactive exploration of spatial distribution of flu risk and (ii) dynamic mapping of movement patterns, across multiple spatial, and temporal scales. The seamless integration of these two analyses through the framework illustrates the potential of cyberGIS to resolve the compute and data challenges of analyzing near real-time social media data in an efficient and scalable manner and to support interactive visualization. Copyright (c) 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
We study the sensitivity of a down type quark b' via process pp -> -> using jet substructure methods at the LHC with the collision energy = 14 TeV. We consider the case that the b' is heavy (say from 800 GeV to 1500 GeV) and concentrate on the feasibility of the full hadronic mode. Both top tagger (the HEP top tagger) and W tagger (the CMS W-tagging) are used to reconstruct all objects in the final states. In order to suppress huge SM background events and take into account various cases with different number of boosted objects, we propose a comprehensive reconstruction procedure so as to extract the most crucial observables of the signal events. When b' mass is 1 TeV, it is found that with a 200 fb(-1) dataset, the LHC may be able to detect the b' with a significance up to 10 or better. With a 3000 f b (-1) dataset, the LHC may be able to probe the b' with a mass around up to 2 TeV, only by using the hadronic mode.
Recently, as the building block of deep generative models such as Deep Belief Networks (DBNs), Restricted Boltzmann Machines (RBMs) have attracted much attention. RBM is a Markov Random Field (MRF) associated with a bipartite undirected graph which is famous for powerful expression and tractable inference. While training an RBM, we need to sample from the model. The larger the mixing rate is, the smaller the bias of the samples is. However, neither Gibbs sampling based training methods such as Contrastive Divergence (CD) nor Parallel Tempering based training methods can achieve satisfying mixing rate, which causes poor rendering of the diversity of the modes captured by these trained models. This property may hinder the existing methods to approximate the likelihood gradient. In order to alleviate this problem, we attempt to introduce Tempered Transition, an advanced tempered Markov Chain Monte Carlo method, into training RBMs to replace Gibbs sampling or Parallel Tempering for sampling from RBMs. Experimental results show that our proposed method outperforms the existing methods to achieve better mixing rate and to help approximate the likelihood gradient. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Polymermaterials have been considered as promising candidates for the implementation of memristor devices due to their low-cost, easy solution processability, mechanical flexibility and ductibility, tunable electronic performance through innovative molecular design cum synthesis strategy and compatibility with complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) technology as well. The digital-type polymer memristor behaves as resistive random access memory with non-volatility, high density, more speed, low power consumption, large ON/OFF ratio, high endurance and long retention, and is recognized as an appealing candidate for the next generation "universal memory". As a logic component, the analog-type memristor, with the ability to emulate the fundamental synaptic functions of short-term/long-term plasticity (STP/LTP), spike-timing dependent-plasticity (STDP), spike-rate dependent plasticity (SRDP) and "learningexperience" behaviors, can be used to construct artificial neural networks for neuromorphic computation. In this review, we shall attempt to summarize the recent progress in research on the materials, switching characteristics and mechanism aspects of two terminal polymer memristors, for both information storage and neuromorphic applications that inspire great interest in the industrial and academic communities.
A novel technique to identify and split clusters created by multiple charged particles in the ATLAS pixel detector using a set of artificial neural networks is presented. Such merged clusters are a common feature of tracks originating from highly energetic objects, such as jets. Neural networks are trained using Monte Carlo samples produced with a detailed detector simulation. This technique replaces the former clustering approach based on a connected component analysis and charge interpolation. The performance of the neural network splitting technique is quantified using data from proton-proton collisions at the LHC collected by the ATLAS detector in 2011 and from Monte Carlo simulations. This technique reduces the number of clusters shared between tracks in highly energetic jets by up to a factor of three. It also provides more precise position and error estimates of the clusters in both the transverse and longitudinal impact parameter resolution.
The autonomous vehicle is an automated system equipped with features like environment perception, decision-making, motion planning, and control and execution technology. Navigating in an unstructured and complex environment is a huge challenge for autonomous vehicles, due to the irregular shape of road, the requirement of real-time planning, and the nonholonomic constraints of vehicle. This paper presents a motion planning method, based on the Radial Basis Function (RBF) neural network, to guide the autonomous vehicle in unstructured environments. The proposed algorithm extracts the drivable region from the perception grid map based on the global path, which is available in the road network. The sample points are randomly selected in the drivable region, and a gradient descent method is used to train the RBF network. The parameters of the motion-planning algorithm are verified through the simulation and experiment. It is observed that the proposed approach produces a flexible, smooth, and safe path that can fit any road shape. The method is implemented on autonomous vehicle and verified against many outdoor scenes; furthermore, a comparison of proposed method with the existing well-known Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) method is presented. The experimental results show that the proposed method is highly effective in planning the vehicle path and offers better motion quality.
In this paper, an adaptive containment control is considered for a class of multi-agent systems with multiple leaders containing parametric uncertainties. The agents are heterogeneous though their dynamics have the same relative degree and are minimum phase, while the interconnection topology is described by a general directed graph. A distributed containment control is proposed for the agents to enter the moving convex set spanned by the leaders, based on an adaptive internal model and a recursive stabilization control law. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Automatic activity recognition is an important problem in cognitive systems. Mobile phone-based activity recognition is an attractive research topic because it is unobtrusive. There are many activity recognition models that can infer a user's activity from sensor data. However, most of them lack class incremental learning abilities. That is, the trained models can only recognize activities that were included in the training phase, and new activities cannot be added in a follow-up phase. We propose a class incremental extreme learning machine (CIELM). It (1) builds an activity recognition model from labeled samples using an extreme learning machine algorithm without iterations; (2) adds new output nodes that correspond to new activities; and (3) only requires labeled samples of new activities and not previously used training data. We have tested the method using activity data. Our results demonstrated that the CIELM algorithm is stable and can achieve a similar recognition accuracy to the batch learning method.
This paper presents an approach to classifying electroencephalogram (EEG) signals for brain-computer interfaces (BCI). To eliminate redundancy in high-dimensional EEG signals and reduce the coupling among different classes of EEG signals, we use principle component analysis and linear discriminant analysis to extract features that represent the raw signals. Next, we introduce the voting-based extreme learning machine to classify the features. Experiments performed on real-world data from the 2003 BCI competition indicate that our classification method outperforms state-of-the-art methods in speed and accuracy.
This paper proposes an automatic framework for land cover classification. In majority of published work by various researchers so far, most of the methods need manually mark the label of land cover types. In the proposed framework, all the information, like land cover types and their features, is defined as prior knowledge achieved from land use maps, topographic data, texture data, vegetation's growth cycle and field data. The land cover classification is treated as an automatically supervised learning procedure, which can be divided into automatic sample selection and fuzzy supervised classification. Once a series of features were extracted from multi-source datasets, spectral matching method is used to determine the degrees of membership of auto-selected pixels, which indicates the probability of the pixel to be distinguished as a specific land cover type. In order to make full use of this probability, a fuzzy support vector machine (SVM) classification method is used to handle samples with membership degrees. This method is applied to Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) data of two areas located in Northern China. The automatic classification results are compared with visual interpretation. Experimental results show that the proposed method classifies the remote sensing data with a competitive and stable accuracy, and demonstrate that an objective land cover classification result is achievable by combining several advanced machine learning methods.
In recent decades, perspectives on the integrated social-ecological aspects of natural resource problems have become increasingly influential as traditional national security outlooks have expanded to include environmental and human concerns. However, China has not been influenced much by new environmental security frameworks. An overview of six main stressors - ecosystem degradation, food security, energy, water, urbanization, and climate change - that affect security in China reveals that current policies need to be reformed. China's ecosystems remain subject to widespread degradation, food supply is under stress, energy demand is growing rapidly, there are increasing conflicts over water quality and quantity, urbanization cannot proceed without fundamental environmental and social reforms, and climate-change impacts are projected to intensify. To resolve such security issues, China's leaders must depend less on technological solutions and should instead craft adaptive management reforms to address the lack of interdisciplinary problem-solving, low institutional capacity, and gaps between policy and implementation.
Recently, a novel learning algorithm for single-hidden-layer feedforward neural networks (SLFNs) named extreme learning machine (ELM) was proposed by Huang et al. The essence of ELM is that the learning parameters of hidden nodes, including input weights and biases, are randomly assigned and need not be tuned while the output weights can be analytically determined by the simple generalized inverse operation. The only parameter needed to be defined is the number of hidden nodes. Compared with other traditional learning algorithms for SLFNs, ELM provides extremely faster learning speed, better generalization performance and with least human intervention. This paper firstly introduces a brief review of ELM, describing the principle and algorithm of ELM. Then, we put emphasis on the improved methods or the typical variants of ELM, especially on incremental ELM, pruning ELM, error-minimized ELM, two-stage ELM, online sequential ELM, evolutionary ELM, voting-based ELM, ordinal ELM, fully complex ELM, and symmetric ELM. Next, the paper summarized the applications of ELM on classification, regression, function approximation, pattern recognition, forecasting and diagnosis, and so on. In the last, the paper discussed several open issues of ELM, which may be worthy of exploring in the future.
In this paper, a novel optimization technique based on artificial bee colony algorithm (ABC), which is called as PS-ABCII, is presented. In PS-ABCII, there are three major differences from other ABC-based techniques: (1) the opposition-based learning is applied to the population initialization; (2) the greedy selection mechanism is not adopted; (3) the mode that employed bees become scouts is modified. In order to illustrate the superiority of the proposed modified technique over other ABC-based techniques, ten classical benchmark functions are employed to test. In addition, a hybrid model called PS-ABCII-ELM is also proposed in this paper, which is combined of the PS-ABCII and Extreme Learning Machine (ELM). In PS-ABCII-ELM, the PS-ABCII is applied to tune input weights and biases of ELM in order to improve the generalization performance of ELM. And then it is applied to model and optimize the thermal efficiency of a 300 MW coal-fired boiler. The experimental results show that the proposed model is very convenient, direct and accurate, and it can give a general and suitable way to predict and improve the boiler efficiency of a coal-fired boiler under various operating conditions. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we consider the mobile robots formation control problem without direct measurement of the leader robot's linear velocity. Two decentralized nonlinear algorithms are proposed, respectively, based on adaptive dynamic feedback and immersion Rz invariance estimation based second order sliding mode control methodologies. The main idea is to solve formation problem by estimating the leader robots's linear velocity, while maintaining the given predefined separation distance and bearing angle between the leader robot and the follower robot. The stability of the closed-loop system is proven by means of the Lyapunov method. The proposed controllers are smooth, continuous and robust against unknown bounded uncertainties such as sensor inaccuracy between the outputs of sensors and the true values in collision free environments. Simulation examples and physical vehicles experiments are presented to verify the effectiveness of the proposed design approaches, and the proposed designed methodologies are carefully compared to illustrate the pros and cons of the approaches.
A multilayer feedforward artificial neural network (ANN) is developed for mountainous fractional snow cover (FSC) mapping. This is trained with back propagation to learn the relationship between FSC and Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) products (reflectance at seven bands, normalized difference snow index, land surface temperature (LST), and FSC) and elevation. In this paper, images from Landsat Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus (ETM+) and MODIS products from three periods are chosen to test and validate the proposed method at the Heihe River Basin. Three binary snow cover maps derived from Landsat ETM+ images are used to calculate FSC. Two of these maps are first used to train, calibrate, and test the ANN. The other independent image is used to test the generalization ability of network. Results show that the ANN can easily incorporate auxiliary information to improve the accuracy of snow cover mapping effectively. It is also capable of mapping snow cover fraction in a complicated mountainous area with considerable generalization. For the nonindependent test set, the performance evaluation results show that the improvements of ANN-based methods are apparent compared with MODIS FSC products (higher correlation coefficient, lower root-mean-square error, and more accurate total snow cover area). For the temporal/temporal-spatial independent test set, ANN-based methods perform slightly worse than the nonindependent test set, but the accuracy of the ANN methods still shows some improvement. Elevation, LST, and FSC play more important roles in the training process of the ANN. Overall, experiment 8, which integrated all input information, is approved the best in all test sets.
A comprehensive database on toxicity of ionic liquids (ILs) is established. The database includes over 4000 pieces of data. Based on the database, the relationship between IL's structure and its toxicity has been analyzed qualitatively. Furthermore, Quantitative Structure Activity relationships (QSAR) model is conducted to predict the toxicities (EC50 values) of various ILs toward the Leukemia rat cell line IPC-81. Four parameters selected by the heuristic method (HM) are used to perform the studies of multiple linear regression (MLR) and support vector machine (SVM). The squared correlation coefficient (R-2) and the root mean square error (RMSE) of training sets by two QSAR models are 0.918 and 0.959, 0.258 and 0.179, respectively. The prediction R-2 and RMSE of QSAR test sets by MLR model are 0.892 and 0.329, by SVM model are 0.958 and 0.234, respectively. The nonlinear model developed by SVM algorithm is much outperformed MLR, which indicates that SVM model is more reliable in the prediction of toxicity of ILs. This study shows that increasing the relative number of O atoms of molecules leads to decrease in the toxicity of ILs. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The particle swarm optimizer (PSO) is a swarm intelligence based on heuristic optimization technique that can be applied to a wide range of problems. After analyzing the dynamics of traditional PSO, this paper presents a new PSO variant on the basis of local stochastic search strategy (LSSPSO) for performance improvement. This is encouraged by a social phenomenon that everyone wants to first exceed the nearest superior and then all superior. Specifically, LSSPSO employs a local stochastic search to adjust inertia weight in terms of keeping a balance between the diversity and the convergence speed, aiming to improve the performance of traditional PSO. Experiments conducted on unimodal and multimodal test functions demonstrate the effectiveness of LSSPSO in solving multiple benchmark problems as compared to several other PSO variants. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, an invasive weed optimization (IWO) scheduling algorithm is presented for optimization no-idle flow-shop scheduling problem (NFSP) with the criterion to minimize the maximum completion time (makespan). Firstly, a simple approach is put forward to calculate the makespan of job sequence. Secondly, the most position value (MPV) method is used to code the weed individuals so that fitness values can be calculated. Then, use the global exploration capacity of IWO to select the best fitness value and its corresponding processing sequence of job by evaluating the fitness of individuals. The results of 12 different scale NFSP benchmarks compared with other algorithms show that NFSP can be effectively solved by IWO with stronger robustness. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this technical note, hierarchical games are investigated for multi-agent systems involving a leader and a large number of followers with infinite horizon tracking-type costs. By jointly analyzing dynamic equations and index functions of all agents, a set of centralized Stackelberg equilibrium strategies is given. Then, by using the mean field approach and the brute force method, a set of distributed strategies is designed. Under mild conditions, it is shown that the closed-loop system is uniformly stable and the set of distributed strategies is an epsilon-Stackelberg equilibrium.
The Sylvester equation is often encountered in mathematics and control theory. For the general time-invariant Sylvester equation problem, which is defined in the domain of complex numbers, the Bartels-Stewart algorithm and its extensions are effective and widely used with an O(n(3)) time complexity. When applied to solving the time-varying Sylvester equation, the computation burden increases intensively with the decrease of sampling period and cannot satisfy continuous realtime calculation requirements. For the special case of the general Sylvester equation problem defined in the domain of real numbers, gradient-based recurrent neural networks are able to solve the time-varying Sylvester equation in real time, but there always exists an estimation error while a recently proposed recurrent neural network by Zhang et al [this type of neural network is called Zhang neural network (ZNN)] converges to the solution ideally. The advancements in complex-valued neural networks cast light to extend the existing real-valued ZNN for solving the time-varying real-valued Sylvester equation to its counterpart in the domain of complex numbers. In this paper, a complex-valued ZNN for solving the complex-valued Sylvester equation problem is investigated and the global convergence of the neural network is proven with the proposed nonlinear complex-valued activation functions. Moreover, a special type of activation function with a core function, called sign-bi-power function, is proven to enable the ZNN to converge in finite time, which further enhances its advantage in online processing. In this case, the upper bound of the convergence time is also derived analytically. Simulations are performed to evaluate and compare the performance of the neural network with different parameters and activation functions. Both theoretical analysis and numerical simulations validate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
In this paper, we develop an online synchronous approximate optimal learning algorithm based on policy iteration to solve a multiplayer nonzero-sum game without the requirement of exact knowledge of dynamical systems. First, we prove that the online policy iteration algorithm for the nonzero-sum game is mathematically equivalent to the quasi-Newton's iteration in a Banach space. Then, a model neural network is established to identify the unknown continuous-time nonlinear system using input-output data. For each player, a critic neural network and an action neural network are used to approximate its value function and control policy, respectively. Our algorithm only needs to tune the weights of critic neural networks, so there will be less computational complexity during the learning process. All the neural network weights are updated online in real-time, continuously and synchronously. Furthermore, the uniform ultimate bounded stability of the closed-loop system is proved based on Lyapunov approach. Finally, two simulation examples are given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the developed scheme.
A global potential energy surface (PES) for the H+CH4 <-> H-2+CH3 reaction has been constructed using the neural networks method based on 47783 high level ab initio geometry points. Extensive quasi-classical trajectories and quantum scattering calculations were carried out to check the convergence of the PES. This PES, fully converged with respect to the fitting procedure and the number of ab initio points, has a very small fitting error, and is much faster on evaluation than the modified Shepard interpolating PES, representing the best available PES for this benchmark polyatomic system.
To enable protocol standardization, sharing, and efficient implementation across laboratory automation platforms, we have further developed the PR-PR open-source high-level biology-friendly robot programming language as a cross-platform laboratory automation system. Beyond liquid-handling robotics, PR-PR now supports microfluidic and microscopy platforms, as well as protocol translation into human languages, such as English. While the same set of basic PR-PR commands and features are available for each supported platform, the underlying optimization and translation modules vary from platform to platform. Here, we describe these further developments to PR-PR, and demonstrate the experimental implementation and validation of PR-PR protocols for combinatorial modified Golden Gate DNA assembly across liquid-handling robotic, microfluidic, and manual platforms. To further test PR-PR cross-platform performance, we then implement and assess PR-PR protocols for Kunkel DNA mutagenesis and hierarchical Gibson DNA assembly for microfluidic and manual platforms.
Large-scale and deep sky survey missions are rapidly collecting a large amount of stellar spectra, which necessitate the estimation of atmospheric parameters directly from spectra and make it feasible to statistically investigate latent principles in a large data set. We present a technique for estimating parameters T-eff, logg, and [Fe/H] from stellar spectra. With this technique, we first extract features from stellar spectra using the LASSO algorithm; then, the parameters are estimated from the extracted features using the support vector regression. On a subsample of 20,000 stellar spectra from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) with reference parameters provided by the SDSS/SEGUE Spectroscopic Parameter Pipeline, estimation consistency are 0.007458 dex for log T-eff (101.609921 K for T-eff), 0.189557 dex for log g, and 0.182060 for [Fe/H], where the consistency is evaluated by mean absolute error. Prominent characteristics of the proposed scheme are sparseness, locality, and physical interpretability. In this work, each spectrum consists of 3821 fluxes, and 10, 19, and 14 typical wavelength positions are detected, respectively, for estimating T-eff, logg, and [Fe/H]. It is shown that the positions are related to typical lines of stellar spectra. This characteristic is important in investigating physical indications from analysis results. Then, stellar spectra can be described by the individual fluxes on the detected positions (PD) or local integration of fluxes near them (LI). The aforementioned consistency is the result based on features described by LI. If features are described by PD, consistency is 0.009092 dex for log T-eff (124.545075 K for T-eff), 0.198928 dex for log g, and 0.206814 dex for [Fe/H].
This paper proposes a new complex dynamical network model, in which the nodes are coupled with time-delay, and the inner coupling matrices are with uncertain forms. This model can describe the real world more realistically and can be widely used in practical engineering application. Synchronization in the proposed network model is analyzed by the Lyapunov stability theory and some adaptive controllers are designed to ensure that the proposed network achieve local and global synchronization, respectively. Theoretical analysis and numerical simulations fully verify the main results.
Extreme Support Vector Machine (ESVM) is a nonlinear robust SVM algorithm based on regularized least squares optimization for binary-class classification. In this paper, a novel algorithm for regression tasks, Extreme Support Vector Regression (ESVR), is proposed based on ESVM. Moreover, kernel ESVR is suggested as well. Experiments show that, ESVR has a better generalization than some other traditional single hidden layer feedforward neural networks, such as Extreme Learning Machine (ELM), Support Vector Regression (SVR) and Least Squares-Support Vector Regression (LS-SVR). Furthermore, ESVR has much faster learning speed than SVR and LS-SVR. Stabilities and robustnesses of these algorithms are also studied in the paper, which shows that the ESVR is more robust and stable. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, multistability is discussed for delayed recurrent neural networks with ring structure and multi-step piecewise linear activation functions. Sufficient criteria are obtained to check the existence of multiple equilibria. A lemma is proposed to explore the number and the cross-direction of purely imaginary roots for the characteristic equation, which corresponds to the neural network model. Stability of all of equilibria is investigated. The work improves and extends the existing stability results in the literature. Finally, two examples are given to illustrate the effectiveness of the obtained results.
Future projections of streamflow extremes are of paramount significance in assessing the climate impacts on social and natural systems, particularly for the Himalayan alpine region in the Tibetan Plateau known as the Asian water tower. This study strives to quantify the uncertainties from different sources in simulating future extreme flows and seeks to construct reliable scenarios of future extreme flows for the headwater catchment of the Yellow River Basin in the 21st century. The results can be formulated as follows: (1) The revised snow model based on a daily active temperature method is superior to the commonly used degree-day method in simulating snowmelt processes. (2) In general, hydrological models contribute more uncertainties than the downscaling methods in high flow and low flow over the cryospheric alpine regions characterized by the snow-rainfall-induced runoff processes under most scenarios. Meanwhile, impacts to uncertainty vary with time. (3) The ultimate probability of high flow exhibits a downward trend in future by using an unconditional method, whereas positive changes in the probability of low flow are projected. The method in the work includes a variety of influence from different contributing factors (e.g., downscaling models, hydrological models, model parameters, and their simulation skills) on streamflow projection, therefore can offer more information (i.e., different percentiles of flow and uncertainty ranges) for future water resource planning compared with the purely deterministic approaches. Hence, the results are beneficial to boost our current methodologies of climate impact research in the Himalayan alpine zone.
It is important to improve the accuracy of wind speed predictions for wind park management and for conversion of wind power to electricity. However, due to the chaotic and intrinsic complexity of weather parameters, the prediction of wind speed data using different patterns is difficult. A hybrid model known as SAM-ESM-RBFN is proposed for capturing these different patterns and obtaining better prediction performance. This model is based on the seasonal adjustment method (SAM), exponential smoothing method (ESM), and radial basis function neural network (RBFN). The mean hourly wind speed data from two meteorological stations in the Hexi Corridor of China were used as examples to evaluate the performance of the proposed approach. To avoid randomness due to the RBFN model or the RBFN component of the hybrid model, all of the simulations were repeated 30 times prior to averaging. The SAM-ESM-RBFN model numerically outperformed the following models: the Holt-Winters model (HWM), the multilayer perceptron neural network (MLP), the ESM, the RBFN, the hybrid SAM and ESM (SAM-ESM), the hybrid SAM and RBFN (SAM-RBFN), and the hybrid ESM and RBFN (ESM-RBFN). Overall, the proposed approach was effective in improving the prediction accuracy. (c) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Facing horizontal channel competition in a hierarchical distribution system, independent intermediaries such as wholesalers and retailers are keen to find the optimal location and pricing strategies that enable them to adapt to the increasingly competitive business environment. To help market intermediaries to address their challenges, we propose in this paper a spatial agent-based model (SAM), grounded in complex adaptive systems, which comprises four types of agents, namely the world, the manufacturer, firms, and consumers. We derive the firms' optimal behaviors in response to competition by evaluating the evolutionary location and pricing strategies using a genetic algorithm. We observe that a pyramid structure and the bullwhip effect in demand emerge from the evolutionary behavior of the SAM. We also find that buyers' searching ability enhanced by information technology has a significant effect on the degree of competition in a hierarchical distribution system. In addition, we find that firms that distribute elastic goods are likely to lower their prices to attract more buyers and move closer to their suppliers to save transport costs. In the case that the product demand is inelastic, intermediaries will move as close to their buyers as possible because they can maximize their profits in the SAM.
This brief is concerned with the problem of asymptotic stability of neural networks with time-varying delays. The activation functions are monotone nondecreasing with known lower and upper bounds. Novel stability criteria are derived by employing new Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional and the integral inequality. The developed stability criteria have delay dependencies and the results are characterized by linear matrix inequalities. New and less conservative solutions to the global stability problem are provided in terms of feasibility testing. Numerical examples are finally given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
We present a potential energy surface fitting scheme based on multiplicative artificial neural networks. It has the sum of products form required for efficient computation of the dynamics of multidimensional quantum systems with the multi configuration time dependent Hartree method. Moreover, it results in analytic potential energy matrix elements when combined with quantum dynamics methods using Gaussian basis functions, eliminating the need for a local harmonic approximation. Scaling behavior with respect to the complexity of the potential as well as the requested accuracy is discussed. (C) 2014 AIP Publishing LLC.
The containment problem of first-order and second-order integral multi-agent systems with communication noises is investigated in this paper. Motivated by the previous work, a time-varying gain a(t) is introduced to attenuate the noise effect. It is proved that the proposed protocol can solve the mean square containment problem if the following conditions hold: (1) the communication topology graph has a spanning forest whose roots are leaders of the multi-agent system; (2) integral(infinity)(0) a(t)dt = infinity; (3) lim(t ->infinity) a(t) = 0. Moreover, if a(t) is uniformly continuous, these conditions are necessary for ensuring the mean square containment. In addition, the proposed protocol is also extended to allow the case where each agent has its own gain a(i)(t). It is proved that the mean square containment problem can still be solved if all agent-dependent gains are infinitesimals of the same order as time goes to infinity. Finally, two simulation examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed protocols. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we develop an integral reinforcement learning algorithm based on policy iteration to learn online the Nash equilibrium solution for a two-player zero-sum differential game with completely unknown linear continuous-time dynamics. This algorithm is a fully model-free method solving the game algebraic Riccati equation forward in time. The developed algorithm updates value function, control and disturbance policies simultaneously. The convergence of the algorithm is demonstrated to be equivalent to Newton's method. To implement this algorithm, one critic network and two action networks are used to approximate the game value function, control and disturbance policies, respectively, and the least squares method is used to estimate the unknown parameters. The effectiveness of the developed scheme is demonstrated in the simulation by designing an H-infinity state feedback controller for a power system.
In this paper, we study an approximate projected consensus algorithm for a network to cooperatively compute the intersection of convex sets, where each set corresponds to one network node. Instead of assuming exact convex projection that each node can compute, we allow each node to compute an approximate projection with respect to its own set. After receiving the approximate projection information, nodes update their states by weighted averaging with the neighbors over a directed and time-varying communication graph. The approximate projections are related to projection angle errors, which introduces state-dependent disturbance in the iterative algorithm. Projection accuracy conditions are presented for the considered algorithm to converge. The results indicate how much projection accuracy is required to ensure global consensus to a point in the intersection set when the communication graph is uniformly jointly strongly connected. In addition, we show that pi/4 is a critical angle for the error of the projection approximation to ensure the boundedness. Finally, the results are illustrated by simulations.
Stability problems of continuous-time recurrent neural networks have been extensively studied, and many papers have been published in the literature. The purpose of this paper is to provide a comprehensive review of the research on stability of continuous-time recurrent neural networks, including Hopfield neural networks, Cohen-Grossberg neural networks, and related models. Since time delay is inevitable in practice, stability results of recurrent neural networks with different classes of time delays are reviewed in detail. For the case of delay-dependent stability, the results on how to deal with the constant/variable delay in recurrent neural networks are summarized. The relationship among stability results in different forms, such as algebraic inequality forms, M-matrix forms, linear matrix inequality forms, and Lyapunov diagonal stability forms, is discussed and compared. Some necessary and sufficient stability conditions for recurrent neural networks without time delays are also discussed. Concluding remarks and future directions of stability analysis of recurrent neural networks are given.
In this paper, a reinforcement-learning-based direct adaptive control is developed to deliver a desired tracking performance for a class of discrete-time (DT) nonlinear systems with unknown bounded disturbances. We investigate multi-input-multi-output unknown nonaffine nonlinear DT systems and employ two neural networks (NNs). By using Implicit Function Theorem, an action NN is used to generate the control signal and it is also designed to cancel the nonlinearity of unknown DT systems, for purpose of utilizing feedback linearization methods. On the other hand, a critic NN is applied to estimate the cost function, which satisfies the recursive equations derived from heuristic dynamic programming. The weights of both the action NN and the critic NN are directly updated online instead of offline training. By utilizing Lyapunov's direct method, the closed-loop tracking errors and the NN estimated weights are demonstrated to be uniformly ultimately bounded. Two numerical examples are provided to show the effectiveness of the present approach. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Light curves are usually constructed from discrete observational data by interpolation. In most cases, the observation data is temporally uneven, and therefore the light curve is usually derived by the interpolation of the binned data with the spline function, which is intended for reducing the "high sample noise" (i.e., the variability in the timescales comparable with the bin width). Such a practice of course reduces the time resolution of the light curve. It is known that function approximation is one of the most important applications of the artificial neural networks (ANN). In this work, for the first time we tentatively use the ANN to construct light curves from unevenly sampled variability data. To demonstrate the advantages of ANN for signal reconstruction over commonly used cubic spline function scheme, two sets of simulated periodic functions are used with random noises of varying magnitudes, one single frequency based and one multiple (two) frequency based. These signal reconstruction tests show that the ANN is clearly superior to the cubic spline scheme. As a case study, we use the uneven long-term multi-band monitoring data of BL lacertae to derive the light curves with ANN. It is found that the light curves derived with ANN have higher time resolution than those with the cubic spline function adopted in previous works. We recommend using ANN for the signal reconstruction in astrophysical data analysis as well as that of in other fields.
We consider the classifier ensemble problem in this paper. Due to its superior performance to individual classifiers, class ensemble has been intensively studied in the literature. Generally speaking, there are two prevalent research directions on this, i.e., to diversely generate classifier components, and to sparsely combine multiple classifiers. While most current approaches are emphasized on either sparsity or diversity only, we investigate the classifier ensemble by learning both sparsity and diversity simultaneously. We manage to formulate the classifier ensemble problem with the sparsity or/and diversity learning in a general framework. In particular, the classifier ensemble with sparsity and diversity can be represented as a mathematical optimization problem. We then propose a heuristic algorithm, capable of obtaining ensemble classifiers with consideration of both sparsity and diversity. We exploit the genetic algorithm, and optimize sparsity and diversity for classifier selection and combination heuristically and iteratively. As one major contribution, we introduce the concept of the diversity contribution ability so as to select proper classifier components and evolve classifier weights eventually. Finally, we compare our proposed novel method with other conventional classifier ensemble methods such as Bagging, least squares combination, sparsity learning, and AdaBoost, extensively on UCI benchmark data sets and the Pascal Large Scale Learning Challenge 2008 webspam data. The experimental results confirm that our approach leads to better performance in many aspects. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The paper proposes a novel iterative control scheme based on neural networks for optimally controlling a large class of nonlinear discrete-time systems affected by an unknown time variant delay and system uncertainties. An iterative Dual Heuristic dynamic Programming (DHP) algorithm has been envisaged to design the controller which is proven to converge to the optimal one. The key elements required by the DHP, namely the performance index function, the optimal control policy and the nonlinear delay-affected discrete-time system are modeled with feedforward neural networks. Examples demonstrate the validity of the proposed optimal control approach and its effectiveness in dealing with nonlinear time delay situations. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Autonomous navigation plays an important role in mobile robots. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) have been successfully used in nonlinear systems whose models are difficult to build. However, the third generation neural networks - Spiking neural networks (SNNs) - contain features that are more attractive than those of traditional neural networks (NNs). Because SNNs convey both temporal and spatial information, they are more suitable for mobile robots' controller design. In this paper, a modular navigation controller based on promising spiking neural networks for mobile robots is presented. The proposed behavior-based target-approaching navigation controller, in which the reactive architecture is used, is composed of three sub-controllers: the obstacle-avoidance SNN controller, the wall-following SNN controller and the goal-approaching controller. The proposed modular navigation controller does not require accurate mathematical models of the environment, and is suitable to unknown and unstructured environments. Simulation results show that the proposed transition conditions for sub-controllers are feasible. The navigation controller can control the mobile robot to reach a target successfully while avoiding obstacles and following the wall to get rid of the deadlock caused by local minimum. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we focus on distributed fault detection and isolation (FDI) for a multi-robot system where multiple robots execute a flocking task. Firstly, we propose a fault detection method based on the local-information-exchange and sensor-measurement technologies to cover cases of both perfect communication and imperfect communication. The two detection technologies can be adaptively selected according to the packet loss rate (PLR). Secondly, we design a fault isolation method, considering a situation in which faulty robots still influence the behaviours of other robots. Finally, a complete FDI scheme, based on the proposed detection and isolation methods, is simulated in various scenarios. The results demonstrate that our FDI scheme is effective.
This paper presents a new biped mechanism, which has been designed with main features for low-cost and easy-operation. The biped mechanism is supposed to have the same basic motion capabilities as conventional multi-actuator biped robots, such as straight walking, changing direction, overcoming obstacle, descending and ascending stairs. Furthermore, with two wheels installed on the shank, the biped mechanism has two basic walking modes, which are legged mode and wheeled mode. Walking with proper mode for different environments makes the biped mechanism possess the advantages of both legged and wheeled robots.
This paper investigates the consensus problem of a three dimensional (3D) version of the widely studied Vicsek model, where each member moves in 3D Euclidean space with a constant speed with headings updated according to the average direction of neighbors. In comparison with the original Vicsek model, each agent's heading is determined by two angle sequences interacting with each other, one of which evolves according to a "linear" non-homogeneous equation, which makes the theoretical analysis quite complicated. By analyzing the underlying structure of the system and relying on estimation of some characteristics concerning the initial states, we will establish consensus results for 3D Vicsek model under random framework without resorting to any a priori connectivity assumption. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
AhR has recently emerged as a critical physiological regulator of immune responses affecting both innate and adaptive systems. Since the AhR signaling pathway represents an important link between environmental stimulators and immune-mediated inflammatory disorder, it has become the object of great interest among researchers recently. The current review discusses new insights into the mechanisms of action of a select group of inflammatory autoimmune diseases and the ligand-activated AhR signaling pathway. Representative ligands of AhR, both exogenous and endogenous, are also reviewed relative to their potential use as tools for understanding the role of AhR and as potential therapeutics for the treatment of various inflammatory autoimmune diseases, with a focus on CD4 helper T cells, which play important roles both in self-immune tolerance and in inflammatory autoimmune diseases. Evidence indicating the potential use of these ligands in regulating inflammation in various diseases is highlighted, and potential mechanisms of action causing immune system effects mediated by AhR signaling are also discussed. The current review will contribute to a better understanding of the role of AhR and its signaling pathway in CD4 helper T cell mediated inflammatory disorder. Considering the established importance of AhR in immune regulation and its potential as a therapeutic target, we also think that both further investigation into the molecular mechanisms of immune regulation that are mediated by the ligand-specific AhR signaling pathway, and integrated research and development of new therapeutic drug candidates targeting the AhR signaling pathway should be pursued urgently.
Many social events spread fast through the Internet and arouse wide community discussions. Those on-line public opinions emerge into diverse topics along the time. Moreover, the strength of the topics is fluctuating. How to catch both primary topics and trend of topics over the shifting on-line discussions are not only of theoretical importance for scientific research, but also of practical importance for societal management especially in current China. To try the cutting-edge text analytic technologies to deal with unstructured on-line public opinions and provide support for social problem-solving in the big data era is worth an endeavour. This paper applies dynamic topic model (DTM) to explore the changing topics of new posts collected from Tianya Zatan Board of Tianya Club, the most influential Chinese BBS in mainland China. By analysis of the hot and cold terms trends, we catch the topics shift of main on-line concerns with illustrations of topics of school bus and environment in December of 2011. An algorithm is proposed to compute the strength fluctuation of each topic. With visualized analysis of the respective main topics in several months of 2012, some patterns of the topics fluctuation on the board are summarized.
Radio frequency identification (RFID) is rapidly growing into an important technology for object identification and tracking applications. This gives rise to the most challenging RFID network planning (RNP) problem in the large-scale RFID deployment environment. RNP has been proven to be an NP-hard problem that involves many objectives and constraints. The application of evolutionary and swarm intelligence algorithms for solving multi-objective RNP (MORNP) has gained significant attention in the literature, while these proposed methods always transform multi-objective RNP into single-objective problem by the weighted coefficient approach. In this work, we propose a cooperative multi-objective artificial colony algorithm called CMOABC to find all the Pareto optimal solutions and to achieve the optimal planning solutions by simultaneously optimizing four conflicting objectives in MORNP. The experiment presents an exhaustive comparison of the proposed CMOABC and two successful multi-bjective techniques, namely the recently developed multi-objective artificial bee colony algorithm (MOABC) and nondominated sorting genetic algorithm II (NSGA-II), on instances of different nature, namely the two-objective and three-objective MORNP in the large-scale RFID scenario. Simulation results show that CMOABC proves to be superior for planning RFID networks compared to NSGA-II and MOABC in terms of optimization accuracy and computation robustness. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Because of the complicity of consensus control of nonlinear multiagent systems in state time-delay, most of previous works focused only on linear systems with input time-delay. An adaptive neural network (NN) consensus control method for a class of nonlinear multiagent systems with state time-delay is proposed in this paper. The approximation property of radial basis function neural networks (RBFNNs) is used to neutralize the uncertain nonlinear dynamics in agents. An appropriate Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional, which is obtained from the derivative of an appropriate Lyapunov function, is used to compensate the uncertainties of unknown time delays. It is proved that our proposed approach guarantees the convergence on the basis of Lyapunov stability theory. The simulation results of a nonlinear multiagent time-delay system and a multiple collaborative manipulators system show the effectiveness of the proposed consensus control algorithm.
Algal blooms are a serious problem in waters, which damage aquatic ecosystems and threaten drinking water safety. However, the outbreak mechanism of algal blooms is very complex with great uncertainty, especially for large water bodies where environmental conditions have obvious variation in both space and time. This study developed an innovative method which integrated a self-organizing map (SOM) and fuzzy information diffusion theory to comprehensively analyze algal bloom risks with uncertainties. The Lake Taihu was taken as study case and the long-term (2004-2010) on-site monitoring data were used. The results showed that algal blooms in Taihu Lake were classified into four categories and exhibited obvious spatial-temporal patterns. The lake was mainly characterized by moderate bloom but had high uncertainty, whereas severe blooms with low uncertainty were observed in the northwest part of the lake. The study gives insight on the spatial-temporal dynamics of algal blooms, and should help government and decision-makers outline policies and practices on bloom monitoring and prevention. The developed method provides a promising approach to estimate algal bloom risks under uncertainties. (c) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The objective of this study was to assess the effect of severity of stripe rust (Puccinia striiformis) on the hyperspectral reflectance of wheat. A total of 110 leaf samples with a range of disease severity were collected at the heading stage (Stage I, 29 April) and grain filling stage (Stage II, 21 May). The spectra of the adaxial and abaxial surfaces of the leaf samples were taken using an ASD Leaf Clip, and the spectral characteristics were analysed. The photochemical reflectance index (PRI) was used to build two linear regression functions from the two growth stages using 70 leaves, and the remaining 40 leaves were used to validate their effectiveness. The results indicated that P. striiformis caused changes in foliar water and chlorophyll, and those changes made it feasible to assess disease severity using in situ hyperspectral measurements. In general, the reflectance values from the adaxial surfaces of the leaf samples were smaller than the abaxial surfaces. In comparison to Stage I, the spectral contrast of four different disease severities was greater at Stage II. By comparing the regression functions, the coefficient of determination using the set of leaves for validation for Stage I (R (2) = 0.74) was smaller than that for Stage II (R (2) = 0.83). However, the coefficient of determination for validation for Stage D dagger (R (2) = 0.91) was slightly larger than that of Stage II (R (2) = 0.90). The results suggest that the ASD Leaf Clip is an ideal tool to collect in situ hyperspectral measurements of wheat leaves showing symptoms of stripe rust, and Stage II is more appropriate to assess severity compared to Stage I.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), a member of the Herpesviridae family, is a ubiquitous, contagious, host-adapted pathogen that causes a wide variety of disease states, such as herpes labialis ("cold sores") and encephalitis. Recently, due to the appearance of acyclovir-resistant HSV-1 mutants, a rapidly growing area of research has been the identification of novel small molecules (whether found in traditional medicine or not) with antiviral activity. One group of these novel pre-drugs is gallic acylate polyphenols. Here, detailed insight into the influence of the chemical structure on anti-HSV-1 activity of gallic acylate polyphenols has been provided based on an exploration of structure-function relationships through self-organizing maps and counterpropagation neural networks. A number of descriptors were investigated to construct optimized models. The resulting model exhibits a correct prediction rate of 90.67%, with active molecule classification accuracy higher than 95.00%, demonstrating that the electrostatic effect and distance between atoms are related to HSV-1 inhibition for these gallic acylate polyphenols. The results provide insights into the influence of the chemical structure on anti-HSV-1 activity of gallic acylate polyphenols.
The terahertz (THz) spectra in the range of 0.2-1.6 THz (6.6-52.8 cm(-1)) of wheat grains with various degrees of deterioration (normal, worm-eaten, moldy, and sprouting wheat grains) were investigated by terahertz time domain spectroscopy. Principal component analysis (PCA) was employed to extract feature data according to the cumulative contribution rates; the top four principal components were selected, and then a support vector machine (SVM) method was applied. Several selection kernels (linear, polynomial, and radial basis functions) were applied to identify the four types of wheat grain. The results showed that the materials were identified with an accuracy of nearly 95%. Furthermore, this approach was compared with others (principal component regression, partial least squares regression, and back-propagation neural networks). The comparisons showed that PCA-SVM outperformed the others and also indicated that the proposed method of THz technology combined with PCA-SVM is efficient and feasible for identifying wheat of different qualities. (C) 2014 Optical Society of America
For many real complicated industrial processes, the accurate system model is often unavailable. In this paper, we consider the partially unknown spatially distributed processes (SDPs) which are described by general highly dissipative nonlinear partial differential equations (PDEs) and develop a data-based adaptive suboptimal neuro-control method by introducing the thought of reinforcement learning (RL). First, based on the empirical eigenfunctions computed with Karhunen-Loeve decomposition, singular perturbation theory is used to derive a reduced-order model of an ordinary differential equation that represents the dominant dynamics of the SDP. Second, the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) approach is used for the suboptimal control design, and the thought of policy iteration (PI) is introduced for online learning of the solution of the HJB equation, and its convergence is established. Third, a neural network (NN) is employed to approximate the cost function in the PI procedure, and a NN weight tuning algorithm based on the gradient descent method is proposed. We prove that the developed online adaptive suboptimal neuro-controller can ensure that the original closed-loop PDE system is semiglobally uniformly ultimately bounded. Finally, the developed data-based control method is applied to a nonlinear diffusion-reaction process, and the achieved results demonstrate its effectiveness.
Case-based reasoning (CBR) is one of the main forecasting methods in business forecasting, which performs well in prediction and holds the ability of giving explanations for the results. In business failure prediction (BFP), the number of failed enterprises is relatively small, compared with the number of non-failed ones. However, the loss is huge when an enterprise fails. Therefore, it is necessary to develop methods (trained on imbalanced samples) which forecast well for this small proportion of failed enterprises and performs accurately on total accuracy meanwhile. Commonly used methods constructed on the assumption of balanced samples do not perform well in predicting minority samples on imbalanced samples consisting of the minority/failed enterprises and the majority/non-failed ones. This article develops a new method called clustering-based CBR (CBCBR), which integrates clustering analysis, an unsupervised process, with CBR, a supervised process, to enhance the efficiency of retrieving information from both minority and majority in CBR. In CBCBR, various case classes are firstly generated through hierarchical clustering inside stored experienced cases, and class centres are calculated out by integrating cases information in the same clustered class. When predicting the label of a target case, its nearest clustered case class is firstly retrieved by ranking similarities between the target case and each clustered case class centre. Then, nearest neighbours of the target case in the determined clustered case class are retrieved. Finally, labels of the nearest experienced cases are used in prediction. In the empirical experiment with two imbalanced samples from China, the performance of CBCBR was compared with the classical CBR, a support vector machine, a logistic regression and a multi-variant discriminate analysis. The results show that compared with the other four methods, CBCBR performed significantly better in terms of sensitivity for identifying the minority samples and generated high total accuracy meanwhile. The proposed approach makes CBR useful in imbalanced forecasting.
Modeling lane changes realistically play an important role in traffic animations. Existing models for traffic simulations mostly focus on lane-changing decision-making. They cannot describe how lane-changing processes go on. Though some methods in motion planning can be further used to describe the processes, they are time-consuming. In this paper, we present an all-in-one model for lane-changing animations. We transform all conditions for lane-changing decision-making into constraints on lane-changing trajectories. We use two polynomials designed in moving reference frames to describe the trajectories. The whole lane-changing process, whether it can occur and how it goes on, is determined by whether there is a valid trajectory. It only takes O(1) time for the determination. Experiment results show that our model can describe lane-changing processes realistically and efficiently. Copyright (c) 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The IEEE audio- and video-coding standards family includes updated tools that can be configured to serve new applications, such as surveillance, Internet, and intelligent systems video.
In the undeniable signatures, the validity or invalidity can only be verified via the Confirmation/Disavowal protocol with the help of the signer. Convertible undeniable signatures provide the flexibility that a signer can convert an undeniable signatures into publicly verifiable one. A proxy signature scheme allows an entity to delegate his/her signing capability to another entity in such a way that the latter can sign messages on behalf of the former when the former is not available. Proxy signatures have found numerous practical applications in ubiquitous computing, distributed systems, mobile agent applications, etc. In this paper, we propose the first convertible undeniable proxy signature scheme with rigorously proven security. The properties Unforgeability, Invisibility and Soundness in the context of convertible undeniable proxy signatures are also clearly defined. The security of our construction is formally proven in the random oracle models, based on some natural complexity assumptions.
Nature is a school for scientists and engineers. Inherent multiscale structures of biological materials exhibit multifunctional integration. In nature, the lotus, the water strider, and the flying bird evolved different and optimized biological solutions to survive. In this contribution, inspired by the optimized solutions from the lotus leaf with superhydrophobic self-cleaning, the water strider leg with durable and robust superhydrophobicity, and the lightweight bird bone with hollow structures, multifunctional metallic foams with multiscale structures are fabricated, demonstrating low adhesive superhydrophobic self-cleaning, striking loading capacity, and superior repellency towards different corrosive solutions. This approach provides an effective avenue to the development of water strider robots and other aquatic smart devices floating on water. Furthermore, the resultant multifunctional metallic foam can be used to construct an oil/water separation apparatus, exhibiting a high separation efficiency and long-term repeatability. The presented approach should provide a promising solution for the design and construction of other multifunctional metallic foams in a large scale for practical applications in the petro-chemical field. Optimized biological solutions continue to inspire and to provide design idea for the construction of multiscale structures with multifunctional integration.
Vision-based 3D moving target observation (3D-VMTO) is a central problem in the field of mobile robotics. In this paper, a new 3D-VMTO method called active cooperative observation is proposed through cooperation among two dynamical monocular vision sensors (MVSs). Under this method, an algorithm based on an extended set-membership filter is designed to fuse observations from different MVSs. An optimal observation condition is then introduced as the constraint into the relative velocity coordinates based path planning scheme, so as to reduce the influence of relative positioning among MVSs and their target on cooperative observation results. Experiments on a multiple rotor-flying-robots testbed demonstrate the validity and feasibility of the proposed method.
We develop an online adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) based optimal control scheme for continuous-time chaotic systems. The idea is to use the ADP algorithm to obtain the optimal control input that makes the performance index function reach an optimum. The expression of the performance index function for the chaotic system is first presented. The online ADP algorithm is presented to achieve optimal control. In the ADP structure, neural networks are used to construct a critic network and an action network, which can obtain an approximate performance index function and the control input, respectively. It is proven that the critic parameter error dynamics and the closed-loop chaotic systems are uniformly ultimately bounded exponentially. Our simulation results illustrate the performance of the established optimal control method.
The aging population, prevalence of chronic diseases, and outbreaks of infectious diseases are some of the major challenges of our present-day society. To address these unmet healthcare needs, especially for the early prediction and treatment of major diseases, health informatics, which deals with the acquisition, transmission, processing, storage, retrieval, and use of health information, has emerged as an active area of interdisciplinary research. In particular, acquisition of health-related information by unobtrusive sensing and wearable technologies is considered as a cornerstone in health informatics. Sensors can be weaved or integrated into clothing, accessories, and the living environment, such that health information can be acquired seamlessly and pervasively in daily living. Sensors can even be designed as stick-on electronic tattoos or directly printed onto human skin to enable long-term health monitoring. This paper aims to provide an overview of four emerging unobtrusive and wearable technologies, which are essential to the realization of pervasive health information acquisition, including: 1) unobtrusive sensing methods, 2) smart textile technology, 3) flexible-stretchable-printable electronics, and 4) sensor fusion, and then to identify some future directions of research.
The LAMOST spectral analysis pipeline, called the 1D pipeline, aims to classify and measure the spectra observed in the LAMOST survey. Through this pipeline, the observed stellar spectra are classified into different subclasses by matching with template spectra. Consequently, the performance of the stellar classification greatly depends on the quality of the template spectra. In this paper, we construct a new LAMOST stellar spectral classification template library, which is supposed to improve the precision and credibility of the present LAMOST stellar classification. About one million spectra are selected from LAMOST Data Release One to construct the new stellar templates, and they are gathered in 233 groups by two criteria: (1) pseudo g-r colors obtained by convolving the LAMOST spectra with the Sloan Digital Sky Survey ugriz filter response curve, and (2) the stellar subclass given by the LAMOST pipeline. In each group, the template spectra are constructed using three steps. (1) Outliers are excluded using the Local Outlier Probabilities algorithm, and then the principal component analysis method is applied to the remaining spectra of each group. About 5% of the one million spectra are ruled out as outliers. (2) All remaining spectra are reconstructed using the first principal components of each group. (3) The weighted average spectrum is used as the template spectrum in each group. Using the previous 3 steps, we initially obtain 216 stellar template spectra. We visually inspect all template spectra, and 29 spectra are abandoned due to low spectral quality. Furthermore, the MK classification for the remaining 187 template spectra is manually determined by comparing with 3 template libraries. Meanwhile, 10 template spectra whose subclass is difficult to determine are abandoned. Finally, we obtain a new template library containing 183 LAMOST template spectra with 61 different MK classes by combining it with the current library.
The radial basis function (RBF) centers play different roles in determining the classification capability of a Gaussian radial basis function neural network (GRBFNN) and should hold different width values. However, it is very hard and time-consuming to optimize the centers and widths at the same time. In this paper, we introduce a new insight into this problem. We explore the impact of the definition of widths on the selection of the centers, propose an optimization algorithm of the RBF widths in order to select proper centers from the center candidate pool, and improve the classification performance of the GRBFNN. The design of the objective function of the optimization algorithm is based on the local mapping capability of each Gaussian RBF. Further, in the design of the objective function, we also handle the imbalanced problem which may occur even when different local regions have the same number of examples. Finally, the recursive orthogonal least square (ROLS) and genetic algorithm (GA), which are usually adopted to optimize the RBF centers, are separately used to select the centers from the center candidates with the initialized widths, in order to testify the validity of our proposed width initialization strategy on the selection of centers. Our experimental results show that, compared with the heuristic width setting method, the width optimization strategy makes the selected centers more appropriate, and improves the classification performance of the GRBFNN. Moreover, the GRBFNN constructed by our method can attain better classification performance than the RBF LS-SVM, which is a state-of-the-art classifier.
In this paper, a novel iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is developed to solve infinite horizon optimal control problems for discrete-time nonlinear systems. When the iterative control law and iterative performance index function in each iteration cannot be accurately obtained, it is shown that the iterative controls can make the performance index function converge to within a finite error bound of the optimal performance index function. Stability properties are presented to show that the system can be stabilized under the iterative control law which makes the present iterative ADP algorithm feasible for implementation both on-line and off-line. Neural networks are used to approximate the iterative performance index function and compute the iterative control policy, respectively, to implement the iterative ADP algorithm. Finally, two simulation examples are given to illustrate the performance of the present method.
Many studies have been carried out for early diagnosis of complex diseases by finding accurate and robust biomarkers specific to respective diseases. In particular, recent rapid advance of high-throughput technologies provides unprecedented rich information to characterize various disease genotypes and phenotypes in a global and also dynamical manner, which significantly accelerates the study of biomarkers from both theoretical and clinical perspectives. Traditionally, molecular biomarkers that distinguish disease samples from normal samples are widely adopted in clinical practices due to their ease of data measurement. However, many of them suffer from low coverage and high false-positive rates or high false-negative rates, which seriously limit their further clinical applications. To overcome those difficulties, network biomarkers (or module biomarkers) attract much attention and also achieve better performance because a network (or subnetwork) is considered to be a more robust form to characterize diseases than individual molecules. But, both molecular biomarkers and network biomarkers mainly distinguish disease samples from normal samples, and they generally cannot ensure to identify predisease samples due to their static nature, thereby lacking ability to early diagnosis. Based on nonlinear dynamical theory and complex network theory, a new concept of dynamical network biomarkers (DNBs, or a dynamical network of biomarkers) has been developed, which is different from traditional static approaches, and the DNB is able to distinguish a predisease state from normal and disease states by even a small number of samples, and therefore has great potential to achieve "real" early diagnosis of complex diseases. In this paper, we comprehensively review the recent advances and developments on molecular biomarkers, network biomarkers, and DNBs in particular, focusing on the biomarkers for early diagnosis of complex diseases considering a small number of samples and high-throughput data (or big data). Detailed comparisons of various types of biomarkers as well as their applications are also discussed.
In the past decade, granular computing (GrC) has been an active topic of research in machine learning and computer vision. However, the granularity division is itself an open and complex problem. Deep learning, at the same time, has been proposed by Geoffrey Hinton, which simulates the hierarchical structure of human brain, processes data from lower level to higher level and gradually composes more and more semantic concepts. The information similarity, proximity and functionality constitute the key points in the original insight of granular computing proposed by Zadeh. Many GrC researches are based on the equivalence relation or the more general tolerance relation, either of which can be described by some distance functions. The information similarity and proximity depended on the samples distribution can be easily described by the fuzzy logic. From this point of view, GrC can be considered as a set of fuzzy logical formulas, which is geometrically defined as a layered framework in a multi-scale granular system. The necessity of such kind multi-scale layered granular system can be supported by the columnar organization of the neocortex. So the granular system proposed in this paper can be viewed as a new explanation of deep learning that simulates the hierarchical structure of human brain. In view of this, a novel learning approach, which combines fuzzy logical designing with machine learning, is proposed in this paper to construct a GrC system to explore a novel direction for deep learning. Unlike those previous works on the theoretical framework of GrC, our granular system is abstracted from brain science and information science, so it can be used to guide the research of image processing and pattern recognition. Finally, we take the task of haze-free as an example to demonstrate that our multi-scale GrC has high ability to increase the texture information entropy and improve the effect of haze-removing. Crown Copyright (C) 2013 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Background: In a deforming anatomic environment, the motion of an instrument suffers from complex geometrical and dynamic constraints, robot assisted minimally invasive surgery therefore requires more sophisticated skills for surgeons. This paper proposes a novel dynamic virtual fixture (DVF) to enhance the surgical operation accuracy of admittance-type medical robotics in the deforming environment.
Streamflow forecasting plays a critical role in nearly all aspects of water resources planning and management. In this work, Gaussian Process Regression (GPR), an effective kernel-based machine learning algorithm, is applied to probabilistic streamflow forecasting. GPR is built on Gaussian process, which is a stochastic process that generalizes multivariate Gaussian distribution to infinite-dimensional space such that distributions over function values can be defined. The GPR algorithm provides a tractable and flexible hierarchical Bayesian framework for inferring the posterior distribution of streamflows. The prediction skill of the algorithm is tested for one-month-ahead prediction using the MOPEX database, which includes long-term hydrometeorological time series collected from 438 basins across the U.S. from 1948 to 2003. Comparisons with linear regression and artificial neural network models indicate that GPR outperforms both regression methods in most cases. The GPR prediction of MOPEX basins is further examined using the Budyko framework, which helps to reveal the close relationships among water-energy partitions, hydrologic similarity, and predictability. Flow regime modification and the resulting loss of predictability have been a major concern in recent years because of climate change and anthropogenic activities. The persistence of streamflow predictability is thus examined by extending the original MOPEX data records to 2012. Results indicate relatively strong persistence of streamflow predictability in the extended period, although the low-predictability basins tend to show more variations. Because many low-predictability basins are located in regions experiencing fast growth of human activities, the significance of sustainable development and water resources management can be even greater for those regions. (c) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Opening and closing the eyes are fundamental behaviors for directing attention to the external versus internal world. However, it remains unclear whether the states of eyes-open (EO) relative to eyes-closed (EC) are associated with different topological organizations of functional neural networks for exteroceptive and interoceptive processing (processing the external world and internal state, respectively). Here, we used resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging and neural network analysis to investigate the topological properties of functional networks of the human brain when the eyes were open versus closed. The brain networks exhibited higher cliquishness and local efficiency, but lower global efficiency during the EO state compared to the EC state. These properties suggest an increase in specialized information processing along with a decrease in integrated information processing in EO (vs. EC). More importantly, the "exteroceptive" network, including the attentional system (e.g., superior parietal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule), ocular motor system (e.g., precentral gyrus and superior frontal gyrus), and arousal system (e.g., insula and thalamus), showed higher regional nodal properties (nodal degree, efficiency and betweenness centrality) in EO relative to EC. In contrast, the "interoceptive" network, composed of visual system (e.g., lingual gyrus, fusiform gyrus and cuneus), auditory system (e.g., Heschl's gyurs), somatosensory system (e.g., postcentral gyrus), and part of the default mode network (e.g., angular gyrus and anterior cingulate gyrus), showed significantly higher regional properties in EC vs. EO. In addition, the connections across sensory modalities were altered by volitional eye opening. The synchronicity between the visual system and the motor, somatosensory and auditory systems, characteristic of EC, was attenuated in EO. Further, the connections between the visual system and the attention, arousal and subcortical systems were increased in EO. These results may indicate that EO leads to a suppression of sensory modalities (other than visual) to allocate resources to exteroceptive processing. Our findings suggest that the topological organization of human brain networks dynamically switches corresponding to the information processing modes as we open or close our eyes. (C) 2014 Published by Elsevier Inc.
Segmentation of medical images is an inevitable image processing step for computer-aided diagnosis. Due to complex acoustic inferences and artifacts, accurate extraction of breast lesions in ultrasound images remains a challenge. Although there have been many segmentation techniques proposed, the performance often varies with different image data, leading to poor adaptability in real applications. Intelligent computing techniques for adaptively learning the boundaries of image objects are preferred. This paper focuses on optimization of a previously documented method called robust graph-based (RGB) segmentation algorithm to extract breast tumors in ultrasound images more adaptively and accurately. A novel technique named as parameter-automatically optimized robust graph-based (PAORGB) image segmentation method is accordingly proposed and performed on breast ultrasound images. A particle swarm optimization algorithm is incorporated with the RGB method to achieve optimal or approximately optimal parameters. Experimental results have shown that the proposed technique can more accurately segment lesions from ultrasound images compared to the RGB and two conventional region-based methods. (C) 2013 Elsevier By. All rights reserved.
Simulation and quantitative analysis of urban land use change are effective ways to investigate urban form evolution. Cellular Automata (CA) has been used as a convenient and useful tool for simulating urban land use change. However, the key issue for CA models is the definition of the transition rules, and a number of statistical or artificial intelligence methods may be used to obtain the optimal rules. Neighborhood configuration is a basic component of transition rules, and is characterized by a distance decay effect. However, many CA models do not consider the neighbor decay effect in cellular space. This paper presents a neighbor decay cellular automata model based on particle swarm optimization (PSO-NDCA). We used particle swarm optimization (PSO) to find transition rules and considered the decay effect of the cellular neighborhood. A negative power exponential function was used to compute the decay coefficient of the cellular neighborhood in the model. By calculating the cumulative differences between simulation results and the sample data, the PSO automatically searched for the optimal combination of parameters of the transition rules. Using Xiamen City as a case study, we simulated urban land use changes for the periods 1992-1997 and 2002-2007. Results showed that the PSO-NDCA model had a higher prediction accuracy for built-up land, and a higher overall accuracy and Kappa coefficient than the urban CA model based on particle swarm optimization. The study demonstrates that there exist optimal neighborhood decay coefficients in accordance with the regional characteristics of an area. Urban CA modelling should take into account the role of neighborhood decay.
In this paper, a novel strategy is established to design the robust controller for a class of continuous-time nonlinear systems with uncertainties based on the online policy iteration algorithm. The robust control problem is transformed into the optimal control problem by properly choosing a cost function that reflects the uncertainties, regulation, and control. An online policy iteration algorithm is presented to solve the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation by constructing a critic neural network. The approximate expression of the optimal control policy can be derived directly. The closed-loop system is proved to possess the uniform ultimate boundedness. The equivalence of the neural-network-based HJB solution of the optimal control problem and the solution of the robust control problem is established as well. Two simulation examples are provided to verify the effectiveness of the present robust control scheme.
This paper studies the consensus problem of multi-agent systems in which all agents are modeled by a general linear system. The authors consider the case where only the relative output feedback between the neighboring agents can be measured. To solve the consensus problem, the authors first construct a static relative output feedback control under some mild constraints on the system model. Then the authors use an observer based approach to design a dynamic relative output feedback control. If the adjacent graph of the system is undirected and connected or directed with a spanning tree, with the proposed control laws, the consensus can be achieved. The authors note that with the observer based approach, some information exchange between the agents is needed unless the associated adjacent graph is completely connected.
The majority of brain activities are performed by functionally integrating separate regions of the brain. Therefore, the synchronous operation of the brain's multiple regions or neuronal assemblies can be represented as a network with nodes that are interconnected by links. Because of the complexity of brain interactions and their varying effects at different levels of complexity, one of the corresponding authors of this paper recently proposed the brainnetome as a new -ome to explore and integrate the brain network at different scales. Because electroencephalography (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) are noninvasive and have outstanding temporal resolution and because they are the primary clinical techniques used to capture the dynamics of neuronal connections, they lend themselves to the analysis of the neural networks comprising the brainnetome. Because of EEG/MEG's applicability to brainnetome analyses, the aim of this review is to identify the procedures that can be used to form a network using EEG/MEG data in sensor or source space and to promote EEG/MEG network analysis for either neuroscience or clinical applications. To accomplish this aim, we show the relationship of the brainnetome to brain networks at the macroscale and provide a systematic review of network construction using EEG and MEG. Some potential applications of the EEG/MEG brainnetome are to use newly developed methods to associate the properties of a brainnetome with indices of cognition or disease conditions. Associations based on EEG/MEG brainnetome analysis may improve the comprehension of the functioning of the brain in neuroscience research or the recognition of abnormal patterns in neurological disease.
This paper proposes a novel leg orthosis for lower limb rehabilitation robots of the sitting/lying type. It consists of three joint mechanisms: hip, knee and ankle, and two sets of links: thigh and crus. Each driving motor is located close to the associated joint and the rotational axis of each joint mechanism is unique and stable. These features make it outperform the similar mechanisms in stability and dynamic performance. Different forms of eccentric slider-crank mechanisms are applied in the three joint mechanisms, respectively, such that they can be optimized independently. The optimization problems for the hip and knee joint mechanisms, characterized as strongly nonlinear, are developed respectively. Then, a particle swarm optimization algorithm is used to obtain the optimal solutions, which are subsequently validated by comprehensive comparisons. Moreover, the kinematics necessary for motion control and trajectory tracking are investigated, which denote the relationships between the displacements and velocities of the joint mechanisms, lead screws and the end effector. Finally, this paper illustrates the feasibility of the application of the leg orthosis to actual rehabilitation exercises by a simulation example. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We report the first self-powered electronic skin that consists of light-emitting diode (LED) and triboelectric nanogenerator (TENG) arrays that can be utilized for spatially mapping applied instantaneous-touch events and tracking the movement location of the target object by recording the electroluminescent signals of the LEDs without external power sources. The electret film-based TENG can deliver an open-circuit voltage of about - 1070 V, a short-circuit current density of 10 mA/m(2), and a power density of 288 mW/ m(2) on an external load of 100 M Omega. The LEDs can be turned on locally when the back surface of the active matrix is touched, and the intensity of the emitted light depends on the magnitude of the applied local pressure on the device. A constructed active matrix of the LED-TENG array (8 x 7 pixels) can achieve self-powered, visual, and high-resolution tactile sensing by recording the electroluminescent signals from all of the pixels, where the active size of each pixel can be decreased to 10 mm(2). This work is a significant step forward in self-powered tactile-mapping visualization technology, with a wide range of potential applications in touchpad technology, personal signatures, smart wallpapers, robotics, and safety-monitoring devices.
Poor sleep quality impairs cognition, including executive functions and concentration, but there has been little direct research on the relationships between sleep quality and mind wandering or daydreaming. Evening chronotype is associated with poor sleep quality, more mind wandering and more daydreaming; negative affect is also a mutual correlate. This exploratory study investigated how mind wandering and daydreaming are related to different aspects of sleep quality, and whether sleep quality influences the relationships between mind wandering/daydreaming and negative affect, and mind wandering/daydreaming and chronotype. Three surveys (Ns = 213; 190; 270) were completed with Chinese adults aged 1850, including measures of sleep quality, daytime sleepiness, mind wandering, daydreaming, chronotype and affect (positive and negative). Higher frequencies of mind wandering and daydreaming were associated with poorer sleep quality, in particular with poor subjective sleep quality and increased sleep latency, night-time disturbance, daytime dysfunction and daytime sleepiness. Poor sleep quality was found to partially mediate the relationships between daydreaming and negative affect, and mind wandering and negative affect. Additionally, low positive affect and poor sleep quality, in conjunction, fully mediated the relationships between chronotype and mind wandering, and chronotype and daydreaming. The relationships between mind wandering/daydreaming and positive affect were also moderated by chronotype, being weaker in those with a morning preference. Finally, while daytime sleepiness was positively correlated with daydream frequency, it was negatively correlated with a measure of problem-solving daydreams, indicating that more refined distinctions between different forms of daydreaming or mind wandering are warranted. Overall, the evidence is suggestive of a bi-directional relationship between poor sleep quality and mind wandering/daydreaming, which may be important in attempts to deal with sleep problems and improve sleep quality. These findings and further research on this topic may also have implications for definitions and theories of mind wandering and daydreaming.
Motor execution and imagery (ME and MI), as the basic abilities of human beings, have been considered to be effective strategies in motor skill learning and motor abilities rehabilitation. Neuroimaging studies have revealed several critical regions from functional activation for ME as well as MI. Recently, investigations have probed into functional connectivity of ME; however, few explorations compared the functional connectivity between the two tasks. With betweenness centrality (BC) of graph theory, we explored and compared the functional connectivity between two finger tapping tasks of ME and MI. Our results showed that using BC, the key node for the ME task mainly focused on the supplementary motor area, while the key node for the MI task mainly located in the right premotor area. These results characterized the connectivity patterns of ME and MI and may provide new insights into the neural mechanism underlying motor execution and imagination of movements. (C) 2013 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, an adaptive reinforcement learning-based solution is developed for the infinite-horizon optimal control problem of constrained-input continuous-time nonlinear systems in the presence of nonlinearities with unknown structures. Two different types of neural networks (NNs) are employed to approximate the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. That is, an recurrent NN is constructed to identify the unknown dynamical system, and two feedforward NNs are used as the actor and the critic to approximate the optimal control and the optimal cost, respectively. Based on this framework, the action NN and the critic NN are tuned simultaneously, without the requirement for the knowledge of system drift dynamics. Moreover, by using Lyapunov's direct method, the weights of the action NN and the critic NN are guaranteed to be uniformly ultimately bounded, while keeping the closed-loop system stable. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the present approach, simulation results are illustrated.
Visual odometry provides astronauts with accurate knowledge of their position and orientation. Wearable astronaut navigation systems should be simple and compact. Therefore, monocular vision methods are preferred over stereo vision systems, commonly used in mobile robots. However, the projective nature of monocular visual odometry causes a scale ambiguity problem. In this paper, we focus on the integration of a monocular camera with a laser distance meter to solve this problem. The most remarkable advantage of the system is its ability to recover a global trajectory for monocular image sequences by incorporating direct distance measurements. First, we propose a robust and easy-to-use extrinsic calibration method between camera and laser distance meter. Second, we present a navigation scheme that fuses distance measurements with monocular sequences to correct the scale drift. In particular, we explain in detail how to match the projection of the invisible laser pointer on other frames. Our proposed integration architecture is examined using a live dataset collected in a simulated lunar surface environment. The experimental results demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed method.
This paper addresses the attitude synchronization problem in multi-agent systems with directed and switching interconnection topologies. Two cases for the synchronization problem are discussed under different assumptions about the measurable information. In the first case the agents can measure their rotations relative to a global reference coordinate frame, whilst in the second case they can only measure the relative rotations between each other. Two intuitive distributed control laws based on the axis-angle representations of the rotations are proposed for the two cases, respectively. The invariance of convex balls in SO(3) is guaranteed. Moreover, attitude synchronization is ensured under the well-known mild switching assumptions, the joint strong connection for the first case and joint quasi-strong connection for the second case. To show the effectiveness of the proposed control schemes, illustrative examples are provided. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To further expand the application of an artificial neural network in the field of neutron spectrometry, the criteria for choosing between an artificial neural network and the maximum entropy method for the purpose of unfolding neutron spectra was presented. The counts of the Bonner spheres for IAEA neutron spectra were used as a database, and the artificial neural network and the maximum entropy method were used to unfold neutron spectra; the mean squares of the spectra were defined as the differences between the desired and unfolded spectra. After the information entropy of each spectrum was calculated using information entropy theory, the relationship between the mean squares of the spectra and the information entropy was acquired. Useful information from the information entropy guided the selection of unfolding methods. Due to the importance of the information entropy, the method for predicting the information entropy using the Bonner spheres' counts was established. The criteria based on the information entropy theory can be used to choose between the artificial neural network and the maximum entropy method unfolding methods. The application of an artificial neural network to unfold neutron spectra was expanded. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper proposes an adaptive proportional integral derivative (PID) algorithm to solve a formation control problem in the leader-follower framework where the leader robot's velocities are unknown for the follower robots. The main idea is first to design some proper ideal control law for the formation system to obtain a required performance, and then to propose the adaptive PID methodology to approach the ideal controller. As a result, the formation is achieved with much more enhanced robust formation performance. The stability of the closed-loop system is theoretically proved by Lyapunov method. Both numerical simulations and physical vehicle experiments are presented to verify the effectiveness of the proposed adaptive PID algorithm. (C) 2013 ISA. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, multiperson zero-sum differential games for a class of continuous-time uncertain nonlinear systems are solved using a new iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm. The idea is to use ADP technique to obtain the optimal control pair iteratively that makes the performance index function reach the optimal solution of the zero-sum differential games without the system model. It proves that the iterative performance index functions are convergent to the optimal solution of the game. Stability properties of the system under the iterative control pairs are also presented. Neural networks are used to build the system model, approximate the performance index function, and compute the optimal control policy, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the iterative ADP method. Finally, two simulation examples are given to demonstrate the performance of the proposed method. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
This paper surveys the developments of the last 20 years in the field of central pattern generator (CPG) inspired locomotion control, with particular emphasis on the fast emerging robotics-related applications. Functioning as a biological neural network, CPGs can be considered as a group of coupled neurons that generate rhythmic signals without sensory feedback; however, sensory feedback is needed to shape the CPG signals. The basic idea in engineering endeavors is to replicate this intrinsic, computationally efficient, distributed control mechanism for multiple articulated joints, or multi-DOF control cases. In terms of various abstraction levels, existing CPG control models and their extensions are reviewed with a focus on the relative advantages and disadvantages of the models, including ease of design and implementation. The main issues arising from design, optimization, and implementation of the CPG-based control as well as possible alternatives are further discussed, with an attempt to shed more light on locomotion control-oriented theories and applications. The design challenges and trends associated with the further advancement of this area are also summarized.
This paper is concerned with a new discrete-time policy iteration adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) method for solving the infinite horizon optimal control problem of nonlinear systems. The idea is to use an iterative ADP technique to obtain the iterative control law, which optimizes the iterative performance index function. The main contribution of this paper is to analyze the convergence and stability properties of policy iteration method for discrete-time nonlinear systems for the first time. It shows that the iterative performance index function is nonincreasingly convergent to the optimal solution of the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. It is also proven that any of the iterative control laws can stabilize the nonlinear systems. Neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function and compute the optimal control law, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the iterative ADP algorithm, where the convergence of the weight matrices is analyzed. Finally, the numerical results and analysis are presented to illustrate the performance of the developed method.
This paper presents a novel artificial neural network with a very fast learning speed, all of whose weights and biases are determined by the twice Least Square method, so it is called Least Square Fast Learning Network (LSFLN). In addition, there is another difference from conventional neural networks, which is that the output neurons of LSFLN not only receive the information from the hidden layer neurons, but also receive the external information itself directly from the input neurons. In order to test the validity of LSFLN, it is applied to 6 classical regression applications, and also employed to build the functional relation between the combustion efficiency and operating parameters of a 300WM coal-fired boiler. Experimental results show that, compared with other methods, LSFLN with very less hidden neurons could achieve much better regression precision and generalization ability at a much faster learning speed. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Fuzzy neural networks (FNNs) and rough neural networks (RNNs) both have been hot research topics in the artificial intelligence in recent years. The former imitates the human brain in dealing with problems, the other takes advantage of rough set theory to process questions uncertainly. The aim of FNNs and RNNs is to process the massive volume of uncertain information, which is widespread applied in our life. This article summarizes the recent research development of FNNs and RNNs (together called granular neural networks). First the fuzzy neuron and rough neuron is introduced; next FNNs are analysed in two categories: normal FNNs and fuzzy logic neural networks; then the RNNs are analysed in the following four aspects: neural networks based on using rough sets in preprocessing information, neural networks based on rough logic, neural networks based on rough neuron and neural networks based on rough-granular; then we give a flow chart of the RNNs processing questions and an application of classical neural networks based on rough sets; next this is compared with FNNs and RNNs and the way to integrate is described; finally some advice is given on development of FNNs and RNNs in future.
Soil bulk density (BD) is a key soil physical property that may affect the transport of water and solutes and is essential to estimate soil carbon/nutrients reserves. However, BD data are often lacking in soil databases due to the challenge of directly measuring BD, which is considered to be labor intensive, time consuming, and expensive especially for the lower layers of deep soils such as those of the Chinese Loess Plateau region. We determined the factors that were closely correlated with BD at the regional scale and developed a robust pedotransfer function (PTF) for BD by measuring BD and potentially related soil and environmental factors at 748 selected sites across the Loess Plateau of China (620,000 km(2)) at which we collected undisturbed and disturbed soil samples from two soil layers (0-5 and 20-25 cm). Regional BD values were normally distributed and demonstrated weak spatial variation (CV = 12 %). Pearson's correlation and stepwise multiple linear regression analyses identified silt content, slope gradient (SG), soil organic carbon content (SOC), clay content, slope aspect (SA), and altitude as the factors that were closely correlated with BD and that explained 25.8, 6.3, 5.8, 1.4, 0.3, and 0.3 % of the BD variation, respectively. Based on these closely correlated variables, a reasonably robust PTF was developed for BD using multiple linear regression, which performed equally with the artificial neural network method in the current study. The inclusion of topographic factors significantly improved the predictive capability of the BD PTF and in which SG was an important input variable that could be used in place of SA and altitude without compromising its capability for predicting BD. Thus, the developed PTF with only four input variables (clay, silt, SOC, SG), including their common transformations and interactive terms, predicted BD with reasonable accuracy and is thus useful for most applications on the Loess Plateau of China. More attention should be given to the role of topography when developing PTFs for BD prediction. Testing of the developed PTF for use in other loess regions in the world is required.
This paper addresses the multistability problem of n-dimensional complex-valued recurrent neural networks with real-imaginary-type activation functions. Sufficient conditions are proposed for checking the existence of [(2 alpha + 1)(2 beta+ 1)](n) (alpha, beta >= 1) equilibria. Under these conditions, ((alpha + 1)(beta + 1)](n) equilibria are locally exponentially stable and the others are unstable. Attractive basins of equilibria are also investigated. Complete attractive basins of equilibria in 1-dimensional complex-valued recurrent neural networks are obtained. The obtained stability results improve and extend the existing ones. Two numerical examples are given to illustrate the effectiveness of the obtained results. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Proportional delay is a kind of unbounded time-varying delay, which is different from unbounded distributed delays. In this paper, asymptotic stability of the equilibrium point of cellular neural networks with multiple proportional delays is presented. Sufficient conditions for delay-dependent global asymptotic stability and delay-independent uniform asymptotic stability of the system are obtained by employing matrix theory and constructing Lyapunov functional. Two examples are given to illustrate the effectiveness of the obtained results and less conservative than previously existing results. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this paper, an optimal tracking control scheme is proposed for a class of unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems using iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm. First, in order to obtain the dynamics of the system, an identifier is constructed by a three-layer feedforward neural network (NN). Second, a feedforward neuro-controller is designed to get the desired control input of the system. Third, via system transformation, the original tracking problem is transformed into a regulation problem with respect to the state tracking error. Then, the iterative ADP algorithm based on heuristic dynamic programming is introduced to deal with the regulation problem with convergence analysis. In this scheme, feedforward NNs are used as parametric structures for facilitating the implementation of the iterative algorithm. Finally, simulation results are also presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The paper proposes a supervised adaptive dynamic programming (SADP) algorithm for a full-range adaptive cruise control (ACC) system, which can be formulated as a dynamic programming problem with stochastic demands. The suggested ACC system has been designed to allow the host vehicle to drive both in highways and in Stop and Go (SG) urban scenarios. The ACC system can autonomously drive the host vehicle to a desired speed and/or a given distance from the target vehicle in both operational cases. Traditional adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) is a suitable tool to address the problem but training usually suffers from low convergence rates and hardly achieves an effective controller. A SADP algorithm which introduces the concept of inducing region is here introduced to overcome such training drawbacks. The SADP algorithm performs very well in all simulation scenarios and always better than more traditional controllers. The conclusion is that the proposed SADP algorithm is an effective control methodology able to effectively address the full-range ACC problem. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
An adaptive controller which is designed with a priori consideration of actuator saturation effects and guarantees H-infinity tracking performance for a class of multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO) uncertain nonlinear systems with extern disturbances and actuator saturations is presented in this paper. Adaptive radial basis function (RBF) neural networks are used in this controller to approximate the unknown nonlinearities. An auxiliary system is constructed to compensate the effects of actuator saturations. Furthermore, in order to deal with approximation errors for unknown nonlinearities and extern disturbances, a supervisory control is designed, which guarantees that the closed loop system achieves a prescribed disturbance attenuation level so that H-infinity tracking performance is achieved. Steady and transient tracking performance are analyzed and the tracking error is adjustable by explicit choice of design parameters. Computer simulations are presented to illustrate the efficiency of the proposed controller. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In many real-world multi-agent systems, the intrinsic dynamics of velocity for each agent is usually nonlinear dynamic rather than static. Moreover, it is often difficult to obtain the continuous velocity information of multi-agent systems. To overcome the above essential difficulties, this paper aims at investigating the second-order consensus problem of multi-agents systems with nonlinear dynamics by using impulsive control signal protocol. In detail, by using the impulsive signals from agents and virtual leaders, several impulsive control protocols are designed for reaching the second-order consensus of multi-agent systems with fixed or switching topologies. The theoretical analysis is also given to guarantee the second-order consensus based on algebraic graph theory and stability theory of impulsive differential equations. Finally, two typical examples are used to validate the above developed theoretical results. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Bio-inspired actuation materials, also called artificial muscles, have attracted great attention in recent decades for their potential application in intelligent robots, biomedical devices, and micro-electro-mechanical systems. Among them, ionic polymer metal composite (IPMC) actuator has been intensively studied for their impressive high-strain under low voltage stimulation and air-working capability. A typical IPMC actuator is composed of one ion-conductive electrolyte membrane laminated by two electron-conductive metal electrode membranes, which can bend back and forth due to the electrode expansion and contraction induced by ion motion under alternating applied voltage. As its actuation performance is mainly dominated by electrochemical and electromechanical process of the electrode layer, the electrode material and structure become to be more crucial to higher performance. The recent discovery of one dimensional carbon nanotube and two dimensional graphene has created a revolution in functional nanomaterials. Their unique structures render them intriguing electrical and mechanical properties, which makes them ideal flexible electrode materials for IPMC actuators in stead of conventional metal electrodes. Currently although the detailed effect caused by those carbon nanomaterial electrodes is not very clear, the presented outstanding actuation performance gives us tremendous motivation to meet the challenge in understanding the mechanism and thus developing more advanced actuator materials. Therefore, in this review IPMC actuators prepared with different kinds of carbon nanomaterials based electrodes or electrolytes are addressed. Key parameters which may generate important influence on actuation process are discussed in order to shed light on possible future research and application of the novel carbon nanomateials based bio-inspired electrochemical actuators.
In this paper, the AdaBoost-BP algorithm is used to construct a new model to predict the critical frequency of the ionospheric F2-layer (foF2) one hour ahead. Different indices were used to characterize ionospheric diurnal and seasonal variations and their dependence on solar and geomagnetic activity. These indices, together with the current observed foF2 value, were input into the prediction model and the foF2 value at one hour ahead was output. We analyzed twenty-two years' foF2 data from nine ionosonde stations in the East-Asian sector in this work. The first eleven years' data were used as a training dataset and the second eleven years' data were used as a testing dataset. The results show that the performance of AdaBoost-BP is better than those of BP Neural Network (BPNN), Support Vector Regression (SVR) and the IRI model. For example, the AdaBoost-BP prediction absolute error of foF2 at Irkutsk station (a middle latitude station) is 0.32 MHz, which is better than 0.34 MHz from BPNN, 0.35 MHz from SVR and also significantly outperforms the IRI model whose absolute error is 0.64 MHz. Meanwhile, AdaBoost-BP prediction absolute error at Taipei station from the low latitude is 0.78 MHz, which is better than 0.81 MHz from BPNN, 0.81 MHz from SVR and 1.37 MHz from the IRI model. Finally, the variety characteristics of the AdaBoost-BP prediction error along with seasonal variation, solar activity and latitude variation were also discussed in the paper. (C) 2013 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
With the development of data mining and soft computing techniques, it becomes possible to automatically mine knowledge from spatial data. Spatial rule extraction from spatial data with uncertainty is an important issue in spatial data mining. Rough set theory is an effective tool for rule extraction from data with roughness. In our previous studies, Rough set method has been successfully used in the analysis of social and environmental causes of neural tube birth defects. However, both roughness and fuzziness may co-exist in spatial data because of the complexity of the object and the subjective limitation of human knowledge. The situation of fuzzy decisions, which is often encountered in spatial data, is beyond the capability of classical rough set theory. This paper presents a model based on rough fuzzy sets to extract spatial fuzzy decision rules from spatial data that simultaneously have two types of uncertainties, roughness and fuzziness. Fuzzy entropy and fuzzy cross entropy are used to measure accuracies of the fuzzy decisions on unseen objects using the rules extracted. An example of neural tube birth defects is given in this paper. The identification result from rough fuzzy sets based model was compared with those from two classical rule extraction methods and three commonly used fuzzy set based rule extraction models. The comparison results support that the rule extraction model established is effective in dealing with spatial data which have roughness and fuzziness simultaneously. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper presents an inversion method based on neural networks (NN) to estimate rice biomass in a paddy rice field with fully polarimetric (HH, HV, VH, VV) measurements at S-band. The backscattering coefficients are measured by a ground-based scatterometer system during the rice growth period from May to September 2010. The rice growth parameters including biomass, leaf-area index (LAI) and canopy structure are collected by random sampling at the same time. Data analyses show that the multi-temporal backscattering coefficients are very sensitive to the changes of biomass, LAI, canopy height and stem density. We also find that multi-temporal observations are suitable for paddy detection in the early growth period, and co-polarimetric observations perform well for monitoring rice status in the late growth period. According to the field measurements, a rice growth model was established as the function of rice age. The model made the parameters more representative and universal than limited random measurements over a given rice field. The scatter model of rice fields was simulated based on Monte Carlo simulations. The input parameters in the scatter model were generated by the rice growth model. The simulation results of the scatter model were composed as the NN training dataset, which was used for training and accessing the NN inversion algorithm. Two NN models, a simple training model (STM) and a related training model (RTM), were applied to estimate rice biomass. The obtained results show that the root mean square error (RMSE = 0.816 Kg/m(2)) of the RTM is better than that of the STM (RMSE = 1.226 kg/m(2)). The results suggest that the inversion model is able to estimate rice biomass with radar backscattering coefficients at S-band.
The financial market volatility forecasting is regarded as a challenging task because of irregularity, high fluctuation, and noise. In this study, a multiscale ensemble forecasting model is proposed. The original financial series are decomposed firstly different scale components (i.e., approximation and details) using the maximum overlap discrete wavelet transform (MODWT). The approximation is predicted by a hybrid forecasting model that combines autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) with feedforward neural network (FNN). ARIMA model is used to generate a linear forecast, and then FNN is developed as a tool for nonlinear pattern recognition to correct the estimation error in ARIMA forecast. Moreover, details are predicted by Elman neural networks. Three weekly exchange rates data are collected to establish and validate the forecasting model. Empirical results demonstrate consistent better performance of the proposed approach.
In this paper, both Bayesian and mutual-information classifiers are examined for binary classifications with or without a reject option. The general decision rules are derived for Bayesian classifiers with distinctions on error types and reject types. A formal analysis is conducted to reveal the parameter redundancy of cost terms when abstaining classifications are enforced. The redundancy implies an intrinsic problem of nonconsistency for interpreting cost terms. If no data are given to the cost terms, we demonstrate the weakness of Bayesian classifiers in class-imbalanced classifications. On the contrary, mutual-information classifiers are able to provide an objective solution from the given data, which shows a reasonable balance among error types and reject types. Numerical examples of using two types of classifiers are given for confirming the differences, including the extremely class-imbalanced cases. Finally, we briefly summarize the Bayesian and mutual-information classifiers in terms of their application advantages and disadvantages, respectively.
In this paper, using a neural-network-based online learning optimal control approach, a novel decentralized control strategy is developed to stabilize a class of continuous-time nonlinear interconnected large-scale systems. First, optimal controllers of the isolated subsystems are designed with cost functions reflecting the bounds of interconnections. Then, it is proven that the decentralized control strategy of the overall system can be established by adding appropriate feedback gains to the optimal control policies of the isolated subsystems. Next, an online policy iteration algorithm is presented to solve the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equations related to the optimal control problem. Through constructing a set of critic neural networks, the cost functions can be obtained approximately, followed by the control policies. Furthermore, the dynamics of the estimation errors of the critic networks are verified to be uniformly and ultimately bounded. Finally, a simulation example is provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the present decentralized control scheme.
The stability and stabilization conditions of the nonlinear system in Takagi-Sugeno's form are considered. The homogeneously polynomially nonquadratic (HPNQ) Lyapunov functions and homogeneously polynomially parameterized (HPP) state feedback laws are adopted. By generalizing the procedure based on the Polya's theorem, the asymptotically necessary and sufficient (ANS) stability and stabilization conditions in the case of IIPNQ Lyapunov functions and IIPP control laws are reformulated. The major contribution of this paper is to give the parallel results using the multiple indices, so that the slack matrices can be extensively utilized to improve the numerical efficiency. The effectiveness of the results is illustrated by the numerical examples. (C) 2013 The Franklin Institute. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, an optimal control scheme of a class of unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems with dead-zone control constraints is developed using adaptive dynamic programming (ADP). First, the discrete-time Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (DTHJB) equation is derived. Then, an improved iterative ADP algorithm is constructed which can solve the DTHJB equation approximately. Combining with Riemann integral, detailed proofs of existence and uniqueness of the solution are also presented. It is emphasized that this algorithm allows the implementation of optimal control without knowing internal system dynamics. Moreover, the approach removes the requirements of precise parameters of the dead-zone. Finally, simulation studies are given to demonstrate the performance of the present approach using neural networks.
In this paper, an adaptive attractive/repulsive (A/R) swarming model is proposed to explore the role of self-organized formation in swarming systems. By defining the adjustable A/R range gamma i, which is affected by the localized steady state of agents, the standard collective crystal-like swarming formations are straightforwardly unfolded in different scale. Meanwhile, with numerical simulations and analyses, the results show that the adaptive A/R swarming model provides an effective solution to the current existing dilemma of the collective liquid-like formation with unexpected neighbor distances and the split crystal-like formation. The actual neighbor distance of the adaptive A/R model could converge to the expected neighbor distance as planned, based on the different settings of the expected neighbor distance and the A/R range. Moreover, such adjustable A/R swarming formations may find their potential applications such as the formation of self-organized multi-robots and unmanned aerial vehicles, the automatic networking of sensors, etc.
Forest growing stock volume (GSV) is one of the most important indicators in the field of forest resources investigation and monitoring. This article describes the application of two different methods, the multiple stepwise regression (MSR) model and the back-propagation neural network (BPNN), to retrieve forest GSV using Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) images and field data. The article describes the data used, the retrieval methods adopted, and the results achieved. The results show that the surface reflectance of six bands significantly correlated with forest GSV, as did six vegetation indices, factors from principal component analysis and tasselled cap transformation, and three terrain factors. Moreover, texture features including Band 1(mean), Band 2(mean), and Band 3(mean) were highly correlated with forest GSV. An optimal MSR model that included three factors was established for retrieving forest GSV using 53 remote-sensing factors. Three factors were included in the model. Leave-one-out cross-validation demonstrated that the model worked well. Finally, BPNN was constructed and the predicted result was highly consistent with measured forest GSV. In a comparison of the retrieved results with the MSR model and BPNN, the MSR model was better at quantitatively finding the correlation between each remote-sensing factor and forest GSV, and a linear equation could be acquired. However, BPNN was better at predicting forest GSV based on the field data. Additionally, the retrieved map of forest GSV for the whole study area by BPNN was much more consistent with the Landsat TM false-colour composite than that retrieved by the MSR model.
This paper mainly focuses on solving problem of time-invariant Lyapunov matrix equation via Zhang neural network and traditional gradient-based neural network. Generally speaking, based on constructing an unbounded error function, Zhang Neural Networks (ZNN) is depicted in an explicit dynamics for time-varying matrix equation solving, while the traditional Gradient-based Neural Networks (GNN) is an implicit dynamics by defining a scalar-valued norm-based energy function only for the time-invariant matrix problem solving. By using the Simulink software package, Simulink dynamic models could be constructed for these two neural networks in this paper, separately. An illustrative simulation results show that these two type of neural networks could both be used to solve such matrix equation efficiently. Moreover, the ZNN may get superior convergent performance and higher precision than GNN.
Many companies are deploying services, either for consumers or industry, which are largely based on machine-learning algorithms for sophisticated processing of large amounts of data. The state-of-the-art and most popular such machine-learning algorithms are Convolutional and Deep Neural Networks (CNNs and DNNs), which are known to be both computationally and memory intensive. A number of neural network accelerators have been recently proposed which can offer high computational capacity/area ratio, but which remain hampered by memory accesses.
Sentiment analysis has now become a popular research problem to tackle in NLP field. However, there are very few researches conducted on sentiment analysis for Chinese. Progress is held back due to lack of large and labelled corpus and powerful models. To remedy this deficiency, we build a Chinese Sentiment Treebank over social data. It concludes 13550 labeled sentences which are from movie reviews. Furthermore, we introduce a novel Recursive Neural Deep Model (RNDM) to predict sentiment label based on recursive deep learning. We consider the problem of classifying one sentence by overall sentiment, determining a review is positive or negative. On predicting sentiment label at sentence level, our model outperforms other commonly used baselines, such as Naive Bayes, Maximum Entropy and SVM, by a large margin.
This paper addresses a 3D object recognition and pose estimation method with a deep learning model. We train two separated Deep Belief Networks (DBN) before connecting the last layers together to train a classifier. By this means, we can simplify the complicated 3D problem to an easier classifier training problem. The deep learning model shows its advantages in learning hierarchical features which greatly facilitate the recognition mission. We apply the new Deep Belief Networks that combine the two traditional DBNs together and assign different poses of objects as different classes in the system. Besides, to overcome the shortcoming in object detection of the deep learning model, a new object detection method based on K-means clustering is presented. We have built a database comprised of 4 objects with different poses and illuminations for experimental performance evaluation. The experimental results demonstrate that our system with two cameras using the new DBNs can achieve high accuracy on 3D object recognition as well as pose estimation.
In this paper, the development of the roboticized technology has been described. Since the first robot has been designed, robots have been gone through three generations from the individual robots to intelligent robots from 60's. The general structure of an intelligent robot is introduced. Potential development directions of the robotic technology is described as well. Besides, the problems encountered during the research are also discussed. Furthermore, the robotizied technology are applied in the intelligent electric vehicles to improve the driving safety in human-road-vehicle environment.
This paper describes a recognition method for the initial and end points of lap joints based on the image processing techniques. The edge detection technique is used in order to find the edges of the image. And the image processing techniques are employed in order to link the broken edges and find T-junctions of the image which are determined as candidates for the initial and end points of the weld seam. The T-junctions that match the conditions of angles checking and coordinate comparing will be detected as initial and end points of weld seam. The proposed method mainly insists of the 4 steps namely 1) smoothing the image and extracting edges of the image by using Canny operator 2) linking broken edges 3) detecting T-junctions and 4) analysing the initial and end points of weld seams. The experimental results showed that the initial and end points of the lap joints can be precisely recognized using the methods proposed in this paper.
Tensegrity robots are novel flexible mobile robots based on the conception of "tensegrity structures" that cited from the architecture. Tensegrity robots possess high strength-mass ratio, deformation capacity and shock resistance ability and can adapt to the environment with self-deformations. Existing simulations for tensegrity robots are carried out with Matlab that required complex dynamics modeling process and additional force constraints. Using ODE (Open Dynamic Engine) as a simulation tool can avoid the cumbersome modeling process. However, the robot model would collapse with the growth of DOFs (Degrees of Freedom). This paper solves the stable problem caused by large number of DOFs and builds a simulation environment for 6-strut tensegrity robots. Dynamic simulations for rolling and crawling gaits are performed in the simulation environment.
Social and human demands promote the development of automobile technology. For general vehicles, the auxiliary driving or automated driving is from a safe and comfortable level to solve human driving requirements. As the growth of the social demand for cultural and health care, the demand is bound to be reflected during the vehicle driving or proposed by consumers. It is important to consider the driver who may be in fatigue, illness and disability. In this paper, the concept of service robots in the car environment is proposed from car security, cultural and health care. The characteristics of the intelligent service robot system and core technology are discussed and the design scheme is also proposed.
This paper proposes to learn a set of high-level feature representations through deep learning, referred to as Deep hidden IDentity features (DeepID), for face verification. We argue that DeepID can be effectively learned through challenging multi-class face identification tasks, whilst they can be generalized to other tasks (such as verification) and new identities unseen in the training set. Moreover, the generalization capability of DeepID increases as more face classes are to be predicted at training. DeepID features are taken from the last hidden layer neuron activations of deep convolutional networks (ConvNets). When learned as classifiers to recognize about 10, 000 face identities in the training set and configured to keep reducing the neuron numbers along the feature extraction hierarchy, these deep ConvNets gradually form compact identity-related features in the top layers with only a small number of hidden neurons. The proposed features are extracted from various face regions to form complementary and over-complete representations. Any state-of-the-art classifiers can be learned based on these high-level representations for face verification. 97.45% verification accuracy on LFW is achieved with only weakly aligned faces.
In this paper, we present a new framework for speaker verification problems in which sufficient statistics for i-vectors are calculated by a neural network instead of a universal background model. The proposed method for training neural networks differs from those methods used in automatic speech recognition. Specially, the components of output layer are predefined and correspond to both different speaker identities and different vowels regardless of consonant and tone information. The posterior probabilities are obtained by converting the values of output layer with a softmax function. The proposed method has the merits that it takes speech content into account and enriches the traditional spectral representation while keeping the standard back-ends unchanged. Our experimental results show that potential improvement is attained when fusing the neural network with the universal background model, although the former yields inferior performance when compared with the later. As a result, these two methods contain complementary information about the speaker identity.
Due to the complexity of financial market, it is a challenging task to forecast the direction of stock index movement. An accurate prediction of stock index movement may not only provide reference value for the investors to make effective strategy, but also for policy maker to monitor stock market, especially in the emerging market, such as China. In this paper, we investigate the predictability of Least Square Support Vector Machine (LSSVM) by predicting the daily movement direction of China Security Index 300 (CSI 300). For comparing purpose, another artificial intelligence (AI) model, Probabilistic Neural Network (PNN) and two Discriminant Analysis models are performed. Ten technical indicators are selected as input variables of the models. Experimental results reveal that LSSVM method is very promising for directional forecasting for that it outperforms PNN, Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA), Quadratic Discriminant Analysis (QDA) in both training accuracy and testing accuracy. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. Open access under CC BY-NC-ND liens,
After being kick-started with major breakthrough in 2006 by Hinton, LeCun and Bengio respectively, deep learning has been becoming the mainstream for challenging classification systems, which, however always were with "shallow" discriminative classifiers in the past. In this paper, we argue that in common classification cases with plenty but not enough training examples, mixed-quality examples for dozens of categories, deep learning and shallow classification may have complementary performance. Then, we design a hybrid recognition strategy with classification switching to adaptively fuse deep learning and shallow classification technologies. Finally, we present a variety of experiments with visual recognition tasks, i.e., USPS character recognition, Caltech101 visual object classification, and ICDAR scene text recognition. Specifically, we perform word recognition by dynamically combing the conventional open source OCR engine with the present popular convolutional neural networks, and construct an effective end-to-end scene text recognition system with open-vocabulary. This end-to-end system is evaluated on ICDAR 2011 Robust Reading Competition (Challenge 2) dataset, the f measure of which is 54.5%, much better than 45.2% of the latest state-of-the-art performance.
Conventional supervised object recognition methods have been investigated for many years. Despite their successes, there are still two suffering limitations: (1) various information of an object is represented by artificial features only derived from RGB images; (2) lots of manually labeled data is required by supervised learning. To address those limitations, we propose a new semi-supervised learning framework based on RGB and depth (RGB-D) images to improve object recognition. In particular, our framework has two modules: (1) RGB and depth images are represented by convolutional-recursive neural networks to construct high level features, respectively; (2) co-training is exploited to make full use of unlabeled RGB-D instances due to the existing two independent views. Experiments on the standard RGB-D object dataset demonstrate that our method can compete against with other state-of-the-art methods with only 20% labeled data.
Coal mine gas explosion was the most frequent and most severe disaster losses of mine disasters. To evaluate the risk of gas explosion disasters, prevent and avoid the occurrence of coal mine gas explosion hazard in coal mine production safety is an urgent problem to be solved. Therefore, this paper attempts to apply the principle of disaster system theory to coal mine gas explosion disaster risk evaluation, explore the causes of coal mine gas explosion disaster from the perspective of the disaster system, and conduct a comprehensive analysis of the factors of coal mine gas explosion disasters system, Then based on support vector machine (SVM) classification and regression forecasting principle, Coal mine gas explosion disaster risk evaluation model is set up. Finally, with 20 sample data of gas explosion disaster in coal mine as an example, we can verify the feasibility and reliability of the model. The results showed that: from the perspective of disaster system to analysis coal mine gas explosion risk, using support vector machine (SVM) classification and regression to evaluate coal mine gas explosion risk is reasonable and reliable. It provides a new decision method for coal mine disaster risk provides a new decision method.
This paper investigates a hybrid two-phase approach toward exploratory behavior in robotics. In a first phase, controllers are evolved to maximize the quantity of information in the sensori-motor datastream generated by the robot. In a second phase, the data acquired by the evolved controllers is used to support an information theory-based controller, selecting the most informative action in each time step.
Based on psychological experiments and psychophysical mechanisms, it is possible to acquire manufacturing workshop operator's behavior and cognitive situations. A comprehensive optimization model for complex industrial processes is proposed by integrating expert operator's behavior and electrophysiological characters. By using the proposed multiple layer modeling method includes process control, manufacturing and management factors, a human-in-the-loop control system can be created including the situation awareness of manufacturing process and workshop operator cognition.
Traffic data is a fundamental component for applications and researches in transportation systems. However, real traffic data collected from loop detectors or other channels often include missing data which affects the relative applications and researches. This paper proposes an approach based on deep learning to impute the missing traffic data. The proposed approach treats the traffic data including observed data and missing data as a whole data item and restores the complete data with the deep structural network. The deep learning approach can discover the correlations contained in the data structure by a layer-wise pre-training and improve the imputation accuracy by conducting a fine-tuning afterwards. We analyze the imputation patterns that can be realized with the proposed approach and conduct a series of experiments. The results show that the proposed approach can keep a stable error under different traffic data missing rate. Deep learning is promising in the field of traffic data imputation.
In the cognitive radio system, spectrum prediction attracts more and more attention, which predicts future spectrum holes to save energy of spectrum sensing and to improve the efficiency of spectrum access. The current research on spectrum prediction is similar to the hard decision in the communication system. However, the hard decision loses amount of channel information during the process of obtaining channel statuses, which decreases the predictive accuracy of spectrum prediction. Therefore, we propose a "soft decision" model for spectrum prediction based on back-propagation neural networks. In the proposed model, the power values of frequency sampling point instead of the channel status are used as the inputs of the spectrum prediction model. Our experimental results demonstrate that the predictive accuracy of the proposed "soft decision" spectrum prediction model is better than the performance of conventional "hard decision".
The intersection models, such as delay models and queuing length models, are the foundations of optimal signal timing for urban intersection. Lack of the field data of intersection, it is highly difficult to calibrate parameters of the intersection models. Due to the effects of intersection topology, channelization and traffic conditions on these models, obviously it is impossible for single model to be suitable for optimal control of various intersections.
In this paper, we develop an online learning control for a class of unknown nonaffine nonlinear discrete-time systems with unknown bounded disturbances. Under the framework of reinforcement learning, we employ two neural networks (NNs): an action NN is used to generate the control signal, and a critic NN is utilized to estimate the prescribed cost function. By using Lyapunov's direct method, we prove the stability of the closed-loop system. Moreover, based on the developed adaptive scheme, we show that all signals involved are uniformly ultimately bounded. Finally, we provide an example to demonstrate the effectiveness and applicability of the present approach.
It is known in statistics that the linear estimators using the rank-based Wilcoxon approach in linear regression problems are usually insensitive to outliers. Outliers are the data points that differ greatly from the pattern set by the bulk of the data. Inspired by this, Hsieh et al introduced the Wilcoxon approach into the area of machine learning. They investigated four new learning machines, such as Wilcoxon neural network (WNN) etc., and developed four descent gradient based backpropagation algorithms to train these learning machines. The performances of these machines are better than the ordinary nonrobust neural networks. However, it is hard to balance the learning speed and the stability of these algorithms which is inherently the drawback of gradient descent based algorithms. In this paper, a new algorithm is used to train the output weights of single-layer feedforward neural networks (SLFN) with its input weights and biases being randomly chosen. This algorithm is called Wilcoxon-norm based robust extreme learning machine or WRELM for short.
Measurement of fish locomotion is an essential issue not only for biological studies but also valuable for robotics researchers. In this study, an automatic marker less method was proposed for recording fish locomotion by using digital camera. A fish observation system was presented to capture fish motion from top view. And the active shape model was utilized to construct the deformable fish model for tracking fish locomotion and acquiring the precise fish posture. Subsequently, the fish model was applied to tracking the movement of a single fish. The skeleton of fish body was further calculated from the deformable fish model. The two-dimensional posture of fish body was described by the 20 points on the skeleton. Experimental results demonstrated that the proposed locomotion tracking method was efficient to measure the shape variation of the fish body.
Search and rescue robots would benefit from versatile locomotion ability and hence cope with varying environments. Robot snakes, with hyper-redundant body and unique gaits, offer a promising solution to search and rescue applications. This paper presents a portable design of robot snakes that can be controlled from commercial mobile devices like the smartphones. The control results are validated and demonstrated using hardware prototypes.
In this paper, we propose a new fast training methodology for learning of Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) via Singular Value Decomposition (SVD). The fast training methodology uses a supervised pre-adjusting process to adjust roughly parameters of weight matrices of DNNs and change distributions of singular values. SVD is applied to pre-adjusted DNNs, reducing quantities of parameters in DNNs. An unconventional Back Propagation (BP) algorithm is used to train the models restructured by SVD, which has lower time complexity than the conventional BP algorithm. Experimental results indicate that on Large Vocabulary Continuous Speech Recognition (LVCSR) tasks, using the fast training methodology, the unconventional BP algorithm achieves almost 2 times speed-up without any loss of recognition performance and almost 4 times speed-up with only a tiny loss of recognition performance.
Dialogue Management (DM) is an essential issue in Spoken Dialogue Systems (SDS). Most of previous studies on DM do not consider the visual feedback from machine to user that could accelerate the dialogue process dramatically. Thus, in this paper, we firstly model the DM problem in SDS with visual feedback as Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDP). Additionally, Reinforcement Learning (RL) approach is utilized to solve this problem, which yields the Vision and Audition-based DM (VADM) scheme. Finally, extensive experiment results illustrate the performance improvements of the proposed VADM scheme over the existing scheme in different scenarios.
Relative to commercial torque sensors, the embedded torque sensor is gradually become a hot topic in robotics and other intelligent equipment fields in recent years because of its compact structure, lightweight overall, ease of integration, etc. advantages. This paper introduced photoelectric switches to the research and development of embedded torque sensor. Through the designed new body structure and photoelectric switch integrated, we do not only ensure the accuracy of the torque sensors, but also enhance the reliability. Thus it would lay the foundation for the research and development of embedded torque sensor.
This paper focus on evaluation of urbanization quality through a perspective of system theory. A Coupling Coordination Degree (CCD) framework is developed to reveal and assess the interactive of regional system. The Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA) and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) are applied to ensure the objectivity of weight determination in CCD model. We explored the efficacy of this framework by applying it to better understand the interactive of subsystem manifested in a real system, the Pearl River Delta (PRD) region, China. The Jenks natural breaks classification system is applied to classify the CCD value into several categories for compare. Results show that: the CCD values of nine cities all appear increasing trend during the past ten years. This means that the urbanization quality is consistently rising during the ten years in PRD. In the one hand, the rising performance of environment subsystem plays a key role and thus indicates that the implementation of environmental regulations in industrial production is important for the rise of urbanization quality of PRD. On the other hand, the fluctuations in performance of population subsystem and resource subsystem in some cities result in the fluctuation of CCD value in these cities. In the future, the PRD region should pay attention to population regulation, such as talent introduction, industry distribution and population distribution, and efficiency promotion of resource utilization.
In recent years, inexact computing has been increasingly regarded as one of the most promising approaches for reducing energy consumption in many applications that can tolerate a degree of inaccuracy. Driven by the principle of trading tolerable amounts of application accuracy in return for significant resource savings-the energy consumed, the (critical path) delay and the (silicon) area being the resources-this approach has been limited to certain application domains. In this paper, we propose to expand the application scope, error tolerance as well as the energy savings of inexact computing systems through neural network architectures. Such neural networks are fast emerging as popular candidate accelerators for future heterogeneous multi-core platforms, and have flexible error tolerance limits owing to their ability to be trained. Our results based on simulated 65nm technology designs demonstrate that the proposed inexact neural network accelerator could achieve 43.91%-62.49% savings in energy consumption (with corresponding delay and area savings being 18.79% and 31.44% respectively) when compared to existing baseline neural network implementation, at the cost of an accuracy loss (quantified as the Mean Square Error (MSE) which increases from 0.14 to 0.20 on average).
Permanent-magnet synchronous motor (PMSM) drives are widely used for high-performance industrial applications where torque smoothness is an essential requirement. However, the parasitic torque pulsations deteriorates the drive performance particularly at low-speeds. To suppress these speed ripples, a parameter self-learning hybrid fuzzy controller was implemented with the objective of minimizing speed ripples originated by torque pulsations. A three-term fuzzy controller is implemented by simply using a two-term fuzzy control rule-base without any increase of rules. The method of fuzzy inference based on phase plane had less computational burden, while the fuzzy inputs could be continuous. The control parameters are self-tuned by introducing a single neuron together with a backpropagation learning algorithm. This method has simpler structure and control algorithms and can be realized online easily. The simulation results and experiment results of 20kW PMSM in electric car are given, the experiment results show that the parameter self-learning hybrid fuzzy vector control system can minimize the speed ripple efficiently.
the past study of conventional GM (1,1) model for sea level change predictions, as the grey model is exponential function, the change is often very large, lacking of considering the linear factor in the sea level change, thus the linear trend of sea level change should be reasonably reflected. In this paper, an improvement methods, which is adding the linear part to the exponential form expression of GM (1, 1) model to get a grey linear model, is attempted for improving GM (1, 1) model. The data used is the global mean sea level time series data generated by tidal file and provided by Permanent Service for Mean Sea Level. The result shows that the improved model results accuracy is higher than the conventional GM (1, 1) model, the improved model overcomes the disadvantages of conventional GM(1,1) model can not reflect the linear rule of sea level change, and also it makes up for the simple linear model can't reflect nonlinear trend of sea level change.
The iVector representation of speech utterances is currently widely used in speaker and language recognition tasks. In this paper, an iVector extractor using pre-trained neural networks is proposed for speaker verification. It can be viewed as an alternative to the classical total variability approach. In the proposed system, a neural network with bottleneck layer is trained with speaker labeled utterances, then we utilize the bottleneck features of the network to represent the input utterance. As a new iVector representation, it shows comparable performance with the state-of-the-art Total Variability Model (TVM) based iVector extraction system on NIST 2008 SRE. We further achieve a 10% reduction in equal error rates with combination of the proposed extraction system and the TVM system.
In this paper, we propose a general framework for multi-accent speech recognition that combines Multi-level Adaptive Network (MLAN) and automatic model selection system based on accent classification. This framework solves the problem of domain mismatch between standard Mandarin and accent data and makes full use of limited accent data. The effectiveness of the proposed method was evaluated on two typical Chinese accent data, namely Shanghai and Chongqing accents. Results show higher performance of the framework on multi-accent speech recognition compared to GMM-HMM systems with prior accent label knowledge, with up to 3.89% CER (Character Error Rate) reduction on Chongqing accent test set and 1.71% on Shanghai accent test set.
Building up the mapping between articulatory movements and corresponding speech could great facility the speech training and speech aid for voiceless patients. In this paper, we propose a deep learning framework for building up a mapping between articulatory information and corresponding speech, which were recorded by ultrasound system. The dataset includes six Chinese vowels. We use Bimodal Deep Autoencoder algorithm based on RBM to learn the relationship between speech and articulation, the weights matrix of representation of them. Speech and ultrasound images have been reconstructed using the extracted features. The reconstruction error of articulation by our method is less than that of PCA based approach. The reconstructed speech is similar to the original one. We propose a mapping from ultrasound tongue image to acoustic signal with a revised Denoising Autoencoder, the results show that it is a promising approach. In contrast, another experiment is conducted to synthesize the ultrasound tongue image from the speech, but the result should be improved.
Deep neural network acoustic models have shown large improvement in performance over Gaussian mixture models (GMMs) in recent studies. Typically, stochastic gradient descent (SGD) is the most popular method for training deep neural networks. However, training DNN with minibatch based SGD is very slow. Because it requires frequent serial training and scanning the whole training set many passes before reaching the asymptotic region, making it difficult to scale to large dataset. Commonly, we can reduce training time from two aspects, reducing the epochs of training and exploring the distributed training algorithm. There are some distributed training algorithms, such as LBFGS, Hessian-free optimization and asynchronous SGD, have proven significantly reducing the training time. In order to further reduce the training time, we attempted to explore training algorithm with fast convergence and combined it with distributed training algorithm. Averaged stochastic gradient descent (ASGD) is proved simple and effective for one pass on-line learning. This paper investigates the asynchronous ASGD algorithm for deep neural network training. We tested asynchronous ASGD on the Mandarin Chinese recorded speech recognition task using deep neural networks. Experimental results show that the performance of one pass asynchronous ASGD is very close to that of multiple passes asynchronous SGD. Meanwhile, we can reduce the training time by a factor of 6.3.
Effective training of Deep neural networks (DNNs) has very important significance for the DNNs based speech recognition systems. Stochastic gradient descent (SGD) is the most popular method for training DNNs. SGD often provides the solutions that are well adapt to generalization on held-out data. Recently, Hessian Free (HF) optimization have proved another optional algorithm for training DNNs. HF can be used for solving the pathological tasks. Stochastic Hessian Free (SHF) is a variation of HF, which can combine the generalization advantages of stochastic gradient descent (SGD) with second-order information from Hessian Free. This paper focus on investigating the SHF algorithm for DNN training. We conduct this algorithm on 100 hours Mandarin Chinese recorded speech recognition task. The first experiment shows that choosing proper size of gradient and curvature minibatch results in less training time and good performance. Next, it is observed that the performance of SHF does not depend on the initial parameters. Further more, experimental results shows that SHF performs with comparable results with SGD but better than traditional HF. Finally, we find that additional performance improvement is obtained with a dropout algorithm.
Neural network technology is widely applied due to its computational simplicity and versatility. But, this method has some weak points, for example, slow convergence, less accurate and easy to fall into local minimum points. Combined ant colony algorithm and neural network for fault diagnosis, it can overcome the limitations of a single fault diagnosis method. Ant colony neural network method is applied to gearbox fault diagnosis, the results show that the diagnosis with characteristics of high precision, strong scientific and practical wider.
In this paper, a novel vision-based method for roll angle estimation of the robot is proposed. Inspired by biological visual cortex, scales and shapes of local patterns whose directions may contribute to the judgment of the scenes' gravity and horizon are determined. On this basis, a local direction detector is designed and all the detected local directions in an image are summed up into the direction function. Then the precise directions of gravity and horizon may be easily obtained by using statistical techniques. Experiments illustrate the generalization and effectiveness of the proposed method.
this paper presents a novel design of a Powered Caster Wheel (PCW) that decouples the steering and rolling motions. The working principles and mechanical design of the PCW are introduced in details. Kinematic modeling, trajectory planning and control algorithms are derived for PCW-based omnidirectional mobile platforms. To demonstrate the new PCW design, a PCW prototype has been developed and an omnidirectional mobile platform based on the decoupled PCW has also been constructed and tested.
The autoencoder algorithm and its deep version as traditional dimensionality reduction methods have achieved great success via the powerful representability of neural networks. However, they just use each instance to reconstruct itself and ignore to explicitly model the data relation so as to discover the underlying effective manifold structure. In this paper, we propose a dimensionality reduction method by manifold learning, which iteratively explores data relation and use the relation to pursue the manifold structure. The method is realized by a so called "generalized autoencoder" (GAE), which extends the traditional autoencoder in two aspects: (1) each instance x(i) is used to reconstruct a set of instances {x(j)} rather than itself. (2) The reconstruction error of each instance (|parallel to x(j) - x(i)'parallel to(2)) is weighted by a relational function of x(i) and x(j) defined on the learned manifold. Hence, the GAE captures the structure of the data space through minimizing the weighted distances between reconstructed instances and the original ones. The generalized autoencoder provides a general neural network framework for dimensionality reduction. In addition, we propose a multilayer architecture of the generalized autoencoder called deep generalized autoencoder to handle highly complex datasets. Finally, to evaluate the proposed methods, we perform extensive experiments on three datasets. The experiments demonstrate that the proposed methods achieve promising performance.
With the development of wearable computing, wireless communication and artificial intelligence technology, the physiological monitoring systems for homecare applications achieved more and more attention. It is a challenge to design a fully integrated circuit satisfying the requirements of wearable biosensor system, such as small size, low power consumption, wireless transmission, and high signal noise rate (SNR). Based on these considerations, we recently developed a fully-integrated circuit for a wearable biosensor system to measure multiple vital signs in real time, meanwhile, we adopted FIR notch filter to remove the 50Hz power line interference and used cubic spline interpolation to reduce baseline drift noise. The experimental results showed that this wearable system ran well, which could be applied for real-time and ubiquitous healthcare in daily life.
For unsupervised problems like clustering, linear or non-linear data transformations are widely used techniques. Generally, they are beneficial to data representation. However, if data have a complicated structure, these techniques would be unsatisfying for clustering. In this paper, we propose a new clustering method based on the deep auto-encoder network, which can learn a highly non-linear mapping function. Via simultaneously considering data reconstruction and compactness, our method can obtain stable and effective clustering. Experimental results on four databases demonstrate that the proposed model can achieve promising performance in terms of normalized mutual information, cluster purity and accuracy.
In this paper, a distributed semi-global consensus problem is studied for a class of nonlinear multi-agent systems with actuating disturbances. The problem is approached by a two-layer networked distributed control design, containing a configurable internal model network. A sufficient condition is presented for an output-feedback consensus protocol design.
To perform the opening valve task in the DRC (Darpa Robotics Challenge), trajectory planning for dual-arm of the humanoid robot is an important issue under the condition of constrained position and pose of middle points in the trajectory. Different approaches to open valves have been investigated in this study. For dual-arm work, the method of cubic angle curve interpolation in plane circular arc is proposed. By analyzing the workspace of the dual-arm, a suitable space is computed for the legs to coordinated movement to make arms work effectively. The simulation and experiment results show that the velocity and acceleration are continuous, smooth and little position error induced by applying the developed interpolation method. The methods are simple and practical, and can improve the dual-arm robot coordination largely.
For the coordination of multi-agent systems with bandwidth limited digital channels, if there are unmeasurable states in agents' dynamics, then the integrative design of encoding-decoding and control schemes is required for the cooperative stabilization of the whole system. In this paper, the cooperative stabilization for linear discrete-time multi-agent systems is investigated with unmeasurable states and limited communication data rate. A quantized-observer based encoding-decoding and control protocol is proposed. It is shown that under mild conditions on the dynamics of agents and network topology graph, if the communication data rate is sufficiently large, then the dynamic network will achieve cooperative stabilization exponentially by properly choosing the control and observer gains.
Concerning computer aided analysis of the Traditional Chinese Medicine Pulse Diagnosis, the recognition effect of wrist pulse signals is undesirable because of its morphology complexity and the features ambiguity. To solve the problem, we propose a new methodology based on classifier using Shannon Energy Envelope, Hilbert Transform (SEEHT) and Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (DCNN). In this paper, we demonstrate the pulse wave extractor: SEEHT, which is better than traditional one in case of wider, small pulse wave or sudden changes in wave amplitude. Then DCNN is trained by adding noise to increase the sample size for excavating potential features. The proposed methodology is validated using data from Shanghai University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. Various experimental results show that the proposed method significantly outperforms other well-known methods in case of feature ambiguity.
Nowadays phone recognition followed by support vector machine (PR-SVM) has been proposed in language recognition tasks and shown encouraging results. However, it still suffers from the problems such as the curse of dimensionality led by the increasing order of the N-gram feature supervector, the fast increasing number of possible parameters because of fast exact match of the phoneme history, etc.. These problems hamper the capability of N-gram vector space model (VSM) of handling long-term contexts. In this paper, a recurrent neural networks (RNN) based feature reconstruction (FR) method is presented to compensate for the deficiency of the N-grams feature for phonotactic language recognition in this paper. Experiments are implemented on 2009 National Institute of Standards and Technology language recognition evaluation (NIST LRE) database. The results show that the proposed method gives 8.76%, 3.82%, 11.93% relative error rate reduction for 30s, 10s, 3s respectively comparing with the baseline system.
Deep neural network acoustic models have shown large improvement in performance over Gaussian mixture models (GMMs) in recent studies. Typically, deep neural networks are trained based on the cross-entropy criterion using stochastic gradient descent (SGD). However, plain SGD requires scanning the whole training set many passes before reaching the asymptotic region, making it difficult to scale to large dataset. It has been established that the second order SGD can potentially reach its asymptotic region in one pass through the training dataset. However, since it involves expensive computing for the inverse of Hessian matrix in the loss function, its application is limited. Averaged stochastic gradient descent (ASGD) is proved simple and effective for one pass online learning. This paper investigates the ASGD algorithm for deep neural network training. We tested ASGD on the Mandarin Chinese record speech recognition task using deep neural networks. Experimental results show that the performance of one pass ASGD is very close to that of multiple passes SGD.
Accurate face alignment is a vital prerequisite step for most face perception tasks such as face recognition, facial expression analysis and non-realistic face re-rendering. It can be formulated as the nonlinear inference of the facial landmarks from the detected face region. Deep network seems a good choice to model the nonlinearity, but it is nontrivial to apply it directly. In this paper, instead of a straightforward application of deep network, we propose a Coarse-to-Fine Auto-encoder Networks (CFAN) approach, which cascades a few successive Stacked Auto-encoder Networks (SANs). Specifically, the first SAN predicts the landmarks quickly but accurately enough as a preliminary, by taking as input a low-resolution version of the detected face holistically. The following SANs then progressively refine the landmark by taking as input the local features extracted around the current landmarks (output of the previous SAN) with higher and higher resolution. Extensive experiments conducted on three challenging datasets demonstrate that our CFAN outperforms the state-of-the-art methods and performs in real-time(40+fps excluding face detection on a desktop).
In this paper, we propose a new model called deep network cascade (DNC) to gradually upscale low-resolution images layer by layer, each layer with a small scale factor. DNC is a cascade of multiple stacked collaborative local auto-encoders. In each layer of the cascade, non-local self-similarity search is first performed to enhance high-frequency texture details of the partitioned patches in the input image. The enhanced image patches are then input into a collaborative local auto-encoder (CLA) to suppress the noises as well as collaborate the compatibility of the overlapping patches. By closing the loop on non-local self-similarity search and CLA in a cascade layer, we can refine the super-resolution result, which is further fed into next layer until the required image scale. Experiments on image super-resolution demonstrate that the proposed DNC can gradually upscale a low-resolution image with the increase of network layers and achieve more promising results in visual quality as well as quantitative performance.
This paper presents a novel level set method to segment medical image with intensity inhomogeneity (IIH). The multi-scale segmentation idea is incorporated and a new penalty energy term is proposed to eliminate the time-consuming re-initialization procedure. Firstly, the circular window is used to define the local region so as to approximate the image as well as IIH. Then, multi-scale statistical analysis is performed on intensities of local circular regions center in each pixel. The multi-scale energy term can be constructed by fitting multi-scale approximation of inhomogeneity-free image in a piecewise constant way. In addition, a new penalty energy term is constructed to enforce level set function to maintain a signed distance function near the zero level set. Finally, the multi-scale segmentation is performed by minimizing the total energy functional. The experiments on medical images with IIH have demonstrated the efficiency and robustness of the proposed method.
In this paper, considering the local variance of intensity inhomogeneity, we propose a novel local regional level set model based on a so-called Three-Layer structure to segment images with intensity inhomogeneity. The local region intensity mean idea is used to construct region descriptor. Especially, three descriptors separately based on 'large', 'median' and 'small' scales of local regions are utilized to derive the Three-Layer structure. Compared to the traditional methods based on fixed scale for all local regions, the Three-Layer structure is more reliable for capturing local intensity information. Then, the Three-Layer structure is incorporated into the level set energy functional construction. As a result, more effective local intensity information is incorporated into the level set evolution. Finally, the experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method yields results comparative to and even better than the existing popular models for segmenting images with intensity inhomogeneity.
Image segmentation is of great importance in the fields of computer vision, face recognition, medical imaging, digital libraries, and video retrieval. This paper presents a novel method for image segmentation based on a Hybrid particle swarm algorithm, which combines the advantages of swarm intelligence and the natural selection mechanism of artificial bee colony algorithm. Experimental results show that the proposed method can reach a higher quality adequate segmentation, reduce the CPU processing time and eliminate the particles falling into local minima.
This paper studies the mean square and almost sure consensus of discrete-time linear multi-agent systems with communication noises under Markovian switching topologies. By a sophisticated stochastic-approximation type protocol, the closed-loop dynamics of this linear multi-agent system can be transformed into a discrete-time first-order integral multi-agent system. It is proved that if all roots of a polynomial, whose coefficients are the parameters in the gain vector of the proposed protocol, are in the unit circle, there is certain equivalence between the consensus of original linear multi-agent system and the consensus of transformed first-order integral multi-agent system. Then some sufficient conditions on the mean square/almost sure consensus of linear multi-agent systems can be obtained accordingly. Finally, theoretical analysis is verified by simulation examples.
Flexibility, parameter uncertainty and joint friction restrict the control performance of flexible joint robots. In this paper, an adaptive backstepping method with friction compensation is presented for the control of flexible joint robots with parameter inaccuracies, in which the joint friction is described by LuGre model and compensated base on a friction observer, and the inaccuracies of robot parameters are resolved by adaptive parameters estimation. Simulation verifies the effectiveness of the friction compensation method, and shows the proposed controller could achieve good control performance with model inaccuracies.
Visualization model of the coronary vasculature is of utmost importance for the diagnosis of the coronary heart diseases, as well as the planning and navigation of the intravascular surgery. To protect the cardiologists and operation staff against the ionizing radiation, surgical robots are designed and come to assist the practitioners during the interventional procedure. Robotic surgical simulation aims to provide effective, economic and convenient support for the learners with the surgical details as real as possible. In building this system, the geometric model of the blood vessels especially the coronary arteries are the key part of the virtual anatomic scenario. Because of the complex topologies, the segmentation of the coronary arteries is full of challenges. We developed in this paper a semi-automatic approach for this challenging work. The approach is based on an improved geodesic active contours model called CURVES. Firstly, the region that contains the whole heart in the original images are completely extracted. Secondly, the extracted volumetric data is smoothed and thresholded in order to remove noises and irrelevant details. Next the image features are generated by calculating the gradients pixel-wisely, while the initial contours are generated by a modified fast marching method. Then the contour evolution is provoked to segment the boundaries of the coronary arteries. Finally the surface model is visualized after information is organized by using the marching cubes method. Experimental results showed the capability of the proposed approach in the segmentation of the coronary arteries tree.
Accurate needle insertion into soft, inhomogeneous tissue is a critical aspect of many medical problems, such as the percutaneous diagnosis and therapies. In such procedures, the flexible tip-steerable needle with bevel tips can deflect during insertion and reach the target we set beforehand. In 2D motion planning, it's crucial to maintain the needle in a desired plane. However, the inhomogeneous and a sudden change of tissue during insertion, as well as the unmeasurable state variables, gives us a big problem to keep the needle tip in the desire plane accurately. In this paper, in order to reduce deflection of the needle from its path and to increase the accuracy of the needle tip placement, we use a feedback linearization scheme to realize the plane control based on a robust state observer, which can estimate the states of needle tip with tissue uncertainty. Simulation results arc presented to illustrate the practicability of the scheme.
Biped robot is a subclass belongs to legged or walking robots. Most of researches about biped robot focus on stability, which of course the hardest point in this study at present, and they try their best to achieve the goal of stability by ignoring other functions, such as validity, reliability and so on. Therefore, we focus on the speed of response to cover this draw, and make biped robot much more human-like based on our system.
Hammerstein model has been popularly applied to identify the nonlinear systems. In this paper, a Hammerstein-type neural network (HTNN) is derived to formulate the well-known Hammerstein model. The HTNN consists of a nonlinear static gain in cascade with a linear dynamic part. First, the Lipschitz criterion for order determination is derived. Second, the backpropagation algorithm for updating the network weights is presented, and the stability analysis is also drawn. Finally, simulation results show that HTNN identification approach demonstrated identification performances.
Matrix theory plays an important role in modeling linear systems in engineering and science. To model and analyze the intricate behavior of complex systems, it is imperative to formalize matrix theory in a metalogic setting. This paper presents the higher-order logic (HOL) formalization of the vector space and matrix theory in the HOL4 theorem proving system. Formalized theories include formal definitions of real vectors and matrices, algebraic properties, and determinants, which are verified in HOL4. Two case studies, modeling and verifying composite two-port networks and state transfer equations, are presented to demonstrate the applicability and effectiveness of our work.
Swarm intelligence is widely used in the application of communication networks. In this paper we adopt a biologically inspired strategy to investigate the data dissemination problem in the opportunistic cognitive networks (OCNs). We model the system as a centralized and distributed hybrid system including a location prediction server and a pervasive environment deploying the large-scale human-centric devices. To exploit such environment, data gathering and dissemination are fundamentally based on the contact opportunities. To tackle the lack of contemporaneous end-to-end connectivity in opportunistic networks, we apply ant colony optimization as a cognitive heuristic technology to formulate a self-adaptive dissemination-based routing scheme in opportunistic cognitive networks. This routing strategy has attempted to find the most appropriate nodes conveying messages to the destination node based on the location prediction information and intimacy between nodes, which uses the online unsupervised learning on geographical locations and the biologically inspired algorithm on the relationship of nodes to estimate the delivery probability. Extensive simulation is carried out on the real-world traces to evaluate the accuracy of the location prediction and the proposed scheme in terms of transmission cost, delivery ratio, average hops, and delivery latency, which achieves better routing performances compared to the typical routing schemes in OCNs.
We report on our recent experience in applying formal methods to the verification of a descent guidance control program of a lunar lander. The powered descent process of the lander gives a specific hybrid system (HS), i.e. a sampled-data control system composed of the physical plant and the embedded control program. Due to its high complexity, verification of such a system is very hard. In the paper, we show how this problem can be solved by several different techniques including simulation, bounded model checking (BMC) and theorem proving, using the tools Simulink/Stateflow, iSAT-ODE and Flow*, and HHL Prover, respectively. In particular, for the theorem-proving approach to work, we study the invariant generation problem for HSs with general elementary functions. As a preliminary attempt, we perform verification by focusing on one of the 6 phases, i.e. the slow descent phase, of the powered descent process. Through such verification, trustworthiness of the lunar lander's control program is enhanced.
Function matrices, in which elements are functions rather than numbers, are widely used in model analysis of dynamic systems such as control systems and robotics. In safety-critical applications, the dynamic systems are required to be analyzed formally and accurately to ensure their correctness and safeness. Higher-order logic (HOL) theorem proving is a promise technique to match the requirement. This paper proposes a higher-order logic formalization of the function vector and the function matrix theories using the HOL theorem prover, including data types, operations, and their properties, and further presents formalization of the differential and integral of function vectors and function matrices. The formalization is implemented as a library in the HOL system. A case study, a formal analysis of differential of quadratic functions, is presented to show the usefulness of the proposed formalization.
Synchronization control of stochastic neural networks with time-varying discrete and continuous delays has been investigated. A novel control scheme is proposed using the Lyapunov functional method and linear matrix inequality (LMI) approach. Sufficient conditions have been derived to ensure the global asymptotical mean-square stability for the error system, and thus the drive system synchronizes with the response system. Also, the control gain matrix can be obtained. With these effective methods, synchronization can be achieved. Simulation results are presented to show the effectiveness of the theoretical results.
Knowledge bases play a crucial role in intelligent systems, especially in the Web age. Many domain dependent and general purpose knowledge bases have been developed to support various kinds of applications. In this paper, we propose the CASIA-KB, a Chinese semantic knowledge base built from various Web resources. CASIA-KB utilizes Semantic Web and Natural Language Processing techniques and mainly focuses on declarative knowledge. Most of the knowledge is textual knowledge extracted from structured and unstructured sources, such as Web-based Encyclopedias (where more formal and static knowledge comes from), Microblog posts and News (where most updated factual knowledge comes from). CASIA-KB also aims at bringing in images and videos (which serve as non-textual knowledge) as relevant knowledge for specific instances and concepts since they bring additional interpretation and understanding of textual knowledge. For knowledge base organization, we briefly discussed the current ontology of CASIA-KB and the entity linking efforts for linking semantically equivalent entities together. In addition, we build up a SPARQL endpoint with visualization functionality for query processing and result presentation, which can produce query output in different formats and with result visualization supports. Analysis on the entity degree distributions of each individual knowledge source and the whole CASIA-KB shows that each of the branch knowledge base follows power law distribution and when entities from different resources are linked together to build a merged knowledge base, the whole knowledge base still keeps this structural property.
Brain Computer Interface (BCI) is a technology to control devices such as prosthetics, cars, robots and other control related applications using brain signal directly. Currently, EEG-based BCIs are mostly based on classification between different limb effectors, and only few commands can be generated directly. To increase the command number and control efficiency, both clench force parameters and clench speed parameters has been studied independently. In this paper, we try to decode speed and force hand movement imagination at the same time. Alpha band power of EEG signal is extracted as feature and then classified by Support Vector Machine (SVM). The primary result shows that speed and force motor imagery of the same hand is distinguishable, which may increase direct BCI control commands in the future.
As the improvement of smart grids, the customer participation has reinvigorated interest in demand-side features such as load control for domestic users. A genetic based reinforcement learning (RL) load controller is proposed. The genetic is used to adjust the parameters of the controller. The RL algorithm, which is independent of the mathematic model, shows the particular superiority in load control. By means of learning procedures, the proposed controller can learn to take the best actions to regulate the energy usage for equipments with the features of high comfortable for energy usage and low electric charge meanwhile. Simulation results show that the proposed load controller can promote the performance energy usage in smart grids.
Autonomous maneuvering flight control of rotor-flying robots (RFR) is a challenging problem due to the highly complicated structure of its model and significant uncertainties regarding many aspects of the field. As a consequence, it is difficult in many cases to decide whether or not a flight maneuver trajectory is feasible. It is necessary to conduct an analysis of the flight maneuvering ability of an RFR prior to test flight. Our aim in this paper is to use a numerical method called algorithm differentiation (AD) to solve this problem. The basic idea is to compute the internal state (i.e., attitude angles and angular rates) and input profiles based on predetermined maneuvering trajectory information denoted by the outputs (i.e., positions and yaw angle) and their higher-order derivatives. For this purpose, we first present a model of the RFR system and show that it is flat. We then cast the procedure for obtaining the required state/input based on the desired outputs as a static optimization problem, which is solved using AD and a derivative based optimization algorithm. Finally, we test our proposed method using a flight maneuver trajectory to verify its performance.
The AGM postulates are for the belief revision (revision by a single belief), and the DP postulates are for the iterated revision (revision by a finite sequence of beliefs). Li (The Computer Journal 50: 378-390, 2007) gave an R-calculus for R-configurations Delta vertical bar Gamma, where D is a set of atomic formulas or the negations of atomic formulas, and Gamma is a finite set of formulas in the first-order logic. This paper will give a set of axioms and deduction rules for the revision of logic programmings, based on the structure of formulas, so that the deduction system is sound and complete with respect to the maximal consistent subsets of the revised sets by the revising sets of formulas. Moreover, it will be showed that the deduction system satisfies the AGM postulates and the DP postulates.
Contagious diseases threat seriously to human health and even more to the whole society. One of the most effective way to control their spread is to isolate the infected patients and their contacts. But in practice, it is quite challenging to target the contacts. Nowadays, the popularity of smart phones provides an efficient solution to record the contact information. The contact recording problem can be formulated as a low power asynchronous neighbour discovery problem. Traditional neighbour discovery protocols are not suitable for our application, due to their inadequate consideration for high mobility and crowd density-latency relationship. In this paper, we propose LARES, a group based cooperative neighbour discovery protocol. LARES reduces the discovery latency by selecting appropriate phase difference combination to detect neighbours by group. Evaluation results show that LARES can dramatically reduce the discovery latency. When using 10% duty cycle, the expected and the worst case latency are about 1/20 of Disco in single neighbour discovery scenario. The average total latency to discover all the neighbours in an area is only 1/3 of Disco.
In this paper, we design a 6-degree of freedom (6-DOF) mobile manipulator and present a method of coordinating motion planning. Through analyzing the structure and motions of our mobile manipulator, we obtain some multiple constraints, including static constraints, dynamic constraints and obstacle constraints. To avoid the multiple results of inverse kinematics, joint angles constraints are adopted. Under the condition of these constraints, we put forward a method of coordinating motion planning to guarantee that the mobile manipulator can get the optimal solution by the maximum fitness method (MFM). The method includes two steps: first, the mobile platform moves from non-operable region to operable region; second, the coordinating motion between mobile platform and machine arm in order to achieve the purpose of dredging and unloading materials. Simulation experiments on the mobile manipulator show the effectiveness of the proposed method.
For the response acquisition of the structure section measuring points, the method of identifying the structural stiffness parameters is developed by using the extended Kalman filter. The state equation of structural system parameter is a nonlinear equation. Dispersing the structural dynamic equation by using Newmark-beta method, the state transition matrix of discrete state equation is deduced and the solution of discrete state equation is simplified. The numerical simulation shows that the error of structural recognition doesnot exceed 5% when the noise level is 3%. It meets the requirements of the error limit of the engineering structure, which indicates that the derivation described in this paper has the robustness for the structural stiffness recognition. Shear structure parameter identification examples illustrate its applicability, and the method can also be used to identify physical parameters of large structure.
Due to the space constraints and obstacles, the traditional industrial manipulator is too difficult to achieve some tasks, such as the gluing for the wing bulkhead of the aircraft and the maintenance for cooling pipes of the nuclear power plant, etc. Continuum manipulator, inspired by the trunk and the tentacle, proves to be very effective for above-mentioned tasks. A novel octopus-like biomimetic robots, is proposed in this paper, which is consisting of continuum joints and discrete joints, and provide a host of benefits, such as the large space of movement, the high flexibility and the heavy load. A novel analytical approach for solving kinematics of the octopus-like arm manipulator with mixed joints is presented in this paper. Based on the bionic mechanism of the continuum manipulator constructed from mixed joints, the robot configuration is established. In this paper, we present a detailed formulation and explanation of a novel kinematic model for the continuum robots with mixed joints. The modeling method based on the Denavit-Hartenberg parameters(also called DH parameters) is used to depict the motion of robot. The robot is comprised of the continuum joint and the rotated joint, so the kinematic model of continuum joint is crucial for constructing that of the whole robot. The continuum joint is equivalent to a section of elastic body, whose D-H parametors can be obtain from the constant-curvature method. Then the forward kinematics of the whole robot can be builded in a D-H frame. Research results will create a new modeling method for the octopus-like continuum manipulators with mixed joints, which can give a new approach for the design on the biomimetic manipulators operating in the unstructured envirement.
Tree frogs are able to climb or even jump on leaves and branches using their toe pads adhering to and detaching from surfaces, but have to be in the face of the risk of falling down due to fatigue or a slip. While falling down from a great height, air-righting response was observed, which prevents tree frogs from injury caused by back hitting the ground, however the mechanism underlying is unknown. Using a high-speed camera with a plane mirror, we captured the body and limb kinematics of falling tree frogs as they performed rapid air-righting response in three-dimension. The kinematics were then characterized into three stages and substituted into a mathematical multi-body model to simulate the air-righting dynamics caused by the kinematics. The results show that a head-down tree frog performs rapid air-righting with specific series of actions in hindlimb motion, which generates sufficient local angular momentum for the frog to rotate its body upright and keep the total moment of momentum conserved. The applications of these results to small landing robots and multi-segment spacecraft are anticipated.
Octopus can achieve a variety of dexterous movements at any point along its arm, such as elongating, shorting, bending, twisting, or changing the stiffness, which have been considered as an interesting model of inspiration in robotics. Among the complex behaviors, the torsion behavior is important because it provide extra degree of freedom of movement, like twisting. This paper proposed a detailed dynamic model that describes the torsion behavior of octopus arm, based on torsional vibration theory. The initial conditions and boundary conditions that explained the main features of the torsion behaviors of octopus arm are acknowledged. The mode shapes, which describe the torsional vibration frequency and type, were solved as the sum of the time and the distance from the fixed end to where the deformation happened. By comparing the mode shapes results solved by the method proposed in this paper and by FEA Soft ANSYS, the effectiveness of this method has been verified. Further torsional stresses and torsion angles of deformation and vibrations on rod can be expressed as the functions of the mode shapes and the external torque exerted on one end of the rod. This method can be applied to calculate the kinematics results of the torsion behaviors and the appropriate activations related for continuum robotic manipulators inspired by octopus arm.
In this paper, helix tails with rectangular cross-section were designed for propelling a kind of flagella-like swimming robot. CFD (Computational Fluid Dynamics) software was applied to analyze the major influencing factors of the robot's mechanical properties. It is revealed that the thrust reaches the maximum when the helix tails' cross-section width is 0.36 times the diameter. Meanwhile, the helix tails should be designed according to the requirements with the largest diameter, close to but less than 450 helix angle and multi-turns under the limitation of the workspace. Combining these simulation data with the derivation process of Resistive Force Theory, the models for the mechanical properties simulation of the swimming robot were revised, and the explicit empirical formula of propulsive force is obtained. This model lays a good foundation for the robot's motion control as well as unified mathematical description for macro-scale and micro-scale robots.
Stock e-exchange prices forecasting is an important financial problem that is receiving increasing attention. This study proposes a novel three-stage nonlinear ensemble model. In the proposed model, three different types of neural-network based models, i.e. Elman network, generalized regression neural network (GRNN) and wavelet neural network (WNN) are constructed by three non-overlapping training sets and are further optimized by improved particle swarm optimization (IPSO). Finally, a neural-network-based nonlinear meta-model is generated by learning three neural-network based models through support vector machines (SVM) neural network. The superiority of the proposed approach lies in its flexibility to account for potentially complex nonlinear relationships. Three daily stock indices time series are used for validating the forecasting model. Empirical results suggest the ensemble ANNs-PSO-GA approach can significantly improve the prediction performance over other individual models and linear combination models listed in this study.
Path-wise test data generation is generally considered an important problem in the automation of software testing. In essence, it is a constraint optimization problem, which is often solved by search methods such as backtracking algorithms. In this paper, the backtracking algorithm branch and bound and state space search in artificial intelligence are introduced to tackle the problem of path-wise test data generation. The former is utilized to explore the space of potential solutions and the latter is adopted to construct the search tree dynamically. Heuristics are employed in the look-ahead stage of the search. Dynamic variable ordering is presented with a heuristic rule to break ties, values of a variable are determined by the monotonicity analysis on branching conditions, and maintaining path consistency is achieved through analysis on the result of interval arithmetic. An optimization method is also proposed to reduce the search space. The results of empirical experiments show that the search is conducted in a basically backtrack-free manner, which ensures both test data generation with promising performance and its excellence over some currently existing static and dynamic methods in terms of coverage. The results also demonstrate that the proposed method is applicable in engineering.
Equipping multijoint manipulators on a mobile robot is a typical redesign scheme to make the latter be able to actively influence the surroundings and has been extensively used for many ground robots, underwater robots, and space robotic systems. However, the rotor-flying robot (RFR) is difficult to be made such redesign. This is mainly because the motion of the manipulator will bring heavy coupling between itself and the RFR system, which makes the system model highly complicated and the controller design difficult. Thus, in this paper, the modeling, analysis, and control of the combined system, called rotor-flying multijoint manipulator (RF-MJM), are conducted. Firstly, the detailed dynamics model is constructed and analyzed. Subsequently, a full-state feedback linear quadratic regulator (LQR) controller is designed through obtaining linearized model near steady state. Finally, simulations are conducted and the results are analyzed to show the basic control performance.
With the rapid growth of technology, robotic systems have significantly influenced power transmission line maintenance practices over the past few years. This paper presents an innovative design and investigation for a teleoperated mobile robotic system with three arms. The system is capable of performing tasks, such as inspection, maintenance, and deicing for the power transmission grid. Particularly, the design specifications and novel structure of the system are presented. Afterwards, a kinematics analysis is undertaken. For this new system, a four-bar mechanism is introduced for the front and rear arms in order to simplify the kinematics analysis and increase the stiffness of the system. Furthermore, the static stiffness and the mechanisms' workspace are investigated. An autonomous obstacle-crossing strategy is also proposed to enable the system to perform tasks without human intervention. Finally, a control system that has three layers is introduced for the robotic system.
The development of radio frequency identification (RFID) technology generates the most challenging RFID network planning (RNP) problem, which needs to be solved in order to operate the large-scale RFID network in an optimal fashion. RNP involves many objectives and constraints and has been proven to be a NP-hard multi-objective problem. The application of evolutionary algorithm (EA) and swarm intelligence (SI) for solving multiobjective RNP (MORNP) has gained significant attention in the literature, but these algorithms always transform multiple objectives into a single objective by weighted coefficient approach. In this paper, we use multiobjective EA and SI algorithms to find all the Pareto optimal solutions and to achieve the optimal planning solutions by simultaneously optimizing four conflicting objectives in MORNP, instead of transforming multiobjective functions into a single objective function. The experiment presents an exhaustive comparison of three successful multiobjective EA and SI, namely, the recently developed multiobjective artificial bee colony algorithm (MOABC), the nondominated sorting genetic algorithm II (NSGA-II), and the multiobjective particle swarm optimization (MOPSO), on MORNP instances of different nature, namely, the two-objective and three-objective MORNP. Simulation results show that MOABC proves to be more superior for planning RFID networks than NSGA-II and MOPSO in terms of optimization accuracy and computation robustness.
Automatic steering control is the key factor and essential condition in the realization of the automatic navigation control of agricultural vehicles. In order to get satisfactory steering control performance, an adaptive sliding mode control method based on a nonlinear integral sliding surface is proposed in this paper for agricultural vehicle steering control. First, the vehicle steering system is modeled as a second-order mathematic model; the system uncertainties and unmodeled dynamics as well as the external disturbances are regarded as the equivalent disturbances satisfying a certain boundary. Second, a transient process of the desired system response is constructed in each navigation control period. Based on the transient process, a nonlinear integral sliding surface is designed. Then the corresponding sliding mode control law is proposed to guarantee the fast response characteristics with no overshoot in the closed-loop steering control system. Meanwhile, the switching gain of sliding mode control is adaptively adjusted to alleviate the control input chattering by using the fuzzy control method. Finally, the effectiveness and the superiority of the proposed method are verified by a series of simulation and actual steering control experiments.
Psoriasis is an autoimmune disease, which symptoms can significantly impair the patient's life quality. It is mainly diagnosed through the visual inspection of the lesion skin by experienced dermatologists. Currently no cure for psoriasis is available due to limited knowledge about its pathogenesis and development mechanisms. Previous studies have profiled hundreds of differentially expressed genes related to psoriasis, however with no robust psoriasis prediction model available. This study integrated the knowledge of three feature selection algorithms that revealed 21 features belonging to 18 genes as candidate markers. The final psoriasis classification model was established using the novel Incremental Feature Selection algorithm that utilizes only 3 features from 2 unique genes, IGFL1 and C10orf99. This model has demonstrated highly stable prediction accuracy (averaged at 99.81%) over three independent validation strategies. The two marker genes, IGFL1 and C10orf99, were revealed as the upstream components of growth signal transduction pathway of psoriatic pathogenesis. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Global synchronization analysis for complex networks with coupling delay is investigated. Firstly the constant time delay is analyzed and then the case for time-varying delay is considered. Sufficient conditions for network synchronization are given based on Lyapunov functional, linear matrix inequality, and Kronecker product technique. The unknown variables in the sufficient conditions are fewer than those in the recent reference. Moreover, for the time-varying delay case, we find that the conditions are dependent on the bounds of both time delay and its derivative, and the derivative of the time-varying delay can be any value in the bounds. Finally, numerical examples are given to validate the effectiveness of the obtained results.
In current paper, a quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) study was performed for the prediction of acute toxicity of aromatic amines. A set of 56 compounds was randomly divided into a training set of 46 compounds and a test set of 10 compounds. The electronic and topological descriptors computed by the Scigress package and Dragon software were used as predictor variables. Multiple linear regression (MLR) and support vector machine (SVM) were utilized to build the linear and nonlinear QSAR models, respectively. The obtained models with five descriptors show strong predictive ability. The linear model fits the training set with R-2 = 0.71, with higher SVM values of R-2 = 0.77. The validation results obtained from the test set indicate that the SVM model is comparable or superior to that obtained by MLR, both in terms of prediction ability and robustness.
Due to the effectiveness, simple deployment and low cost, radio frequency identification (RFID) systems are used in a variety of applications to uniquely identify physical objects. The operation of RFID systems often involves a situation in which multiple readers physically located near one another may interfere with one another's operation. Such reader collision must be minimized to avoid the faulty or miss reads. Specifically, scheduling the colliding RFID readers to reduce the total system transaction time or response time is the challenging problem for large-scale RFID network deployment. Therefore, the aim of this work is to use a successful multi-swarm cooperative optimizer called (PSO)-O-2 to minimize both the reader-to-reader interference and total system transaction time in RFID reader networks. The main idea of (PSO)-O-2 is to extend the single population PSO to the interacting multi-swarm model by constructing hierarchical interaction topology and enhanced dynamical update equations. As the RFID network scheduling model formulated in this work is a discrete problem, a binary version of (PSO)-O-2 algorithm is proposed. With seven discrete benchmark functions, (PSO)-O-2 is proved to have significantly better performance than the original PSO and a binary genetic algorithm. (PSO)-O-2 is then used for solving the real-world RFID network scheduling problem. Numerical results for four test cases with different scales, ranging from 30 to 200 readers, demonstrate the performance of the proposed methodology.
As a form of targeted advertising, sponsored search auctions attract advertisers bidding for a limited number of slots in paid online listings. Sponsored search markets usually change rapidly overtime, which requires advertisers to adjust their advertising strategies in a timely manner according to market dynamics. In this research, we argue that both the bid price and the advertiser (claimed) daily budget should be dynamically changed at a fine granularity (e.g., within a day) for an effective advertising strategy. By doing so, we can avoid wasting money on early ineffective clicks and seize better advertising opportunities in the future. We formulate the problem of dual adjusting (claimed) daily budget and bid price as a continuous state discrete action decision process in the continuous reinforcement learning (CRL) framework. We fit the CRL approach to our decision scenarios by considering market dynamics and features of sponsored search auctions. We conduct experiments on a real-world dataset collected from campaigns conducted by an e-commerce advertiser on a major Chinese search engine to evaluate our dual adjustment strategy. Experimental results show that our strategy outperforms two state-of-the-art baseline strategies and illustrate the effect of adjusting either (claimed) daily budget or bid price in advertising. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The mean square consensus of linear multi-agent systems with communication noises is studied in this note. Each agent is modeled by a continuous-time linear time-invariant dynamics and the fixed communication topology is described by a digraph. The proposed consensus protocol is composed of two parts: the agent's own state feedback and the relative states between agent and its neighbor agents. Due to the existence of communication noises, the relative states cannot be obtained accurately. To attenuate the noise effect, a time-varying gain vector at(t) K is applied to the inaccurate relative states. It is proved that: 1) if the communication topology has a spanning tree and every node has at least one parent node, then the proposed protocol can solve the mean square consensus problem if and only if a(t) satisfies integral(infinity)(0) a(s) ds = infinity and integral(infinity)(0) a(2) (s) ds < infinity; and all roots of the polynomial whose coefficients are the elements of vector K are in the left half complex plane; 2) if the communication topology has a spanning tree and there exists one node without any parent node, then the condition integral(infinity)(0) a(2) (s) ds < infinity is only sufficient but not necessary; and 3) if the communication topology has no spanning tree, then the proposed protocol cannot solve the mean square consensus problem.
In this paper, the problem of learning the functional dependency between input and output variables from scattered data using fractional polynomial models (FPM) is investigated. The estimation error bounds are obtained by calculating the pseudo-dimension of FPM, which is shown to be equal to that of sparse polynomial models (SPM). A linear decay of the approximation error is obtained for a class of target functions which are dense in the space of continuous functions. We derive a structural risk analogous to the Schwartz Criterion and demonstrate theoretically that the model minimizing this structural risk can achieve a favorable balance between estimation and approximation errors. An empirical model selection comparison is also performed to justify the usage of this structural risk in selecting the optimal complexity index from the data. We show that the construction of FPM can be efficiently addressed by the variable projection method. Furthermore, our empirical study implies that FPM could attain better generalization performance when compared with SPM and cubic splines. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper presents a novel optimization algorithm, namely, hierarchical artificial bee colony optimization, called HABC, to tackle the radio frequency identification network planning (RNP) problem. In the proposed multilevel model, the higher-level species can be aggregated by the subpopulations from lower level. In the bottom level, each subpopulation employing the canonical ABC method searches the part-dimensional optimum in parallel, which can be constructed into a complete solution for the upper level. At the same time, the comprehensive learning method with crossover and mutation operators is applied to enhance the global search ability between species. Experiments are conducted on a set of 10 benchmark optimization problems. The results demonstrate that the proposed HABC obtains remarkable performance on most chosen benchmark functions when compared to several successful swarm intelligence and evolutionary algorithms. Then HABC is used for solving the real-world RNP problem on two instances with different scales. Simulation results show that the proposed algorithm is superior for solving RNP, in terms of optimization accuracy and computation robustness.
Phytoplankton biomass is an important indicator for water quality, and predicting its dynamics is thus regarded as one of the important issues in the domain of river ecology and management. However, the vast majority of models in river systems have focused mostly on flow prediction and water quality with very few applications to biotic parameters such as chlorophyll a (Chl a). Based on a 1.5-year measured dataset of Chl a and environmental variables, we developed two modeling approaches [artificial neural networks (ANN) and multiple linear regression (MLR)] to simulate the daily Chl a dynamics in a German lowland river. In general, the developed ANN and MLR models achieved satisfactory accuracy in predicting daily dynamics of Chl a concentrations. Although some peaks and lows were not predicted, the predicted and the observed data matched closely by the MLR model with the coefficient of determination (R (2)), Nash-Sutcliffe efficiency (NS), and the root mean square error (RMSE) of 0.53, 0.53, and 2.75 for the calibration period and 0.63, 0.62, and 1.94 for the validation period, respectively. Likewise, the results of the ANN model also illustrated a good agreement between observed and predicted data during calibration and validation periods, which was demonstrated by R (2), NS, and RMSE values (0.68, 0.68, and 2.27 for the calibration period, 0.55, 0.66 and 2.12 for the validation period, respectively). According to the sensitivity analysis, Chl a concentration was highly sensitive to dissolved inorganic nitrogen, nitrate-nitrogen, autoregressive Chl a, chloride, sulfate, and total phosphorus. We concluded that it was possible to predict the daily Chl a dynamics in the German lowland river based on relevant environmental factors using either ANN or MLR models. The ANN model is well suited for solving non-linear and complex problems, while the MLR model can explicitly explore the coefficients between independent and dependent variables. Further studies are still needed to improve the accuracy of the developed models.
This paper comprehensively surveys the development of face hallucination (FH), including both face super-resolution and face sketch-photo synthesis techniques. Indeed, these two techniques share the same objective of inferring a target face image (e.g. high-resolution face image, face sketch and face photo) from a corresponding source input (e.g. low-resolution face image, face photo and face sketch). Considering the critical role of image interpretation in modern intelligent systems for authentication, surveillance, law enforcement, security control, and entertainment, FH has attracted growing attention in recent years. Existing FH methods can be grouped into four categories: Bayesian inference approaches, subspace learning approaches, a combination of Bayesian inference and subspace learning approaches, and sparse representation-based approaches. In spite of achieving a certain level of development, FH is limited in its success by complex application conditions such as variant illuminations, poses, or views. This paper provides a holistic understanding and deep insight into FH, and presents a comparative analysis of representative methods and promising future directions.
Faults or failures are inevitable to occur and their prompt detection and isolation are essential for the dependability of various systems and for avoiding damages to the system itself, persons and the environment. Therefore, the safety of helicopter platforms have attracted the attention of many researchers in the past two decades. In order to deal with these problems, this paper presents an overview of the recent development and current researches in the field of fault diagnosis, including analytical/model-based, signal processing-based and knowledge-based techniques, and also passive/active fault- tolerant control approaches. Among various helicopters, single-rotor aerial vehicles, i.e. manned helicopters, unmanned helicopters, two and three degree-of-freedom unmanned helicopter experimental platforms, are considered for providing an overall picture of the fault diagnosis and fault-tolerant control approaches based on the review of journal articles in last two decades, conference articles in last several years and some books.
This paper combines symmetry reduction with generalized symbolic trajectory evaluation (GSTE) to tackle state explosion. The inherent correlation between structure symmetry and property symmetry is formalized as a theorem, which provides the soundness of our symmetry reduction method. We introduce a practical strategy to effectively integrate the symmetry-reduction approach in a hybrid verification environment which combines theorem proving and GSTE. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated by case studies.
Current network intrusion detection systems lack adaptability to the frequently changing network environments. Furthermore, intrusion detection in the new distributed architectures is now a major requirement. In this paper, we propose two online Adaboost-based intrusion detection algorithms. In the first algorithm, a traditional online Adaboost process is used where decision stumps are used as weak classifiers. In the second algorithm, an improved online Adaboost process is proposed, and online Gaussian mixture models (GMMs) are used as weak classifiers. We further propose a distributed intrusion detection framework, in which a local parameterized detection model is constructed in each node using the online Adaboost algorithm. A global detection model is constructed in each node by combining the local parametric models using a small number of samples in the node. This combination is achieved using an algorithm based on particle swarm optimization (PSO) and support vector machines. The global model in each node is used to detect intrusions. Experimental results show that the improved online Adaboost process with GMMs obtains a higher detection rate and a lower false alarm rate than the traditional online Adaboost process that uses decision stumps. Both the algorithms outperform existing intrusion detection algorithms. It is also shown that our PSO, and SVM-based algorithm effectively combines the local detection models into the global model in each node; the global model in a node can handle the intrusion types that are found in other nodes, without sharing the samples of these intrusion types.
We constructed a six-dimensional potential energy surface (PES) for the dissociative chemisorption of HCl on Au(111) using the neural networks method based on roughly 70000 energies obtained from extensive density functional theory (DFT) calculations. The resulting PES is accurate and smooth, based on the small fitting errors and good agreement between the fitted PES and the direct DFT calculations. Time-dependent wave packet calculations show that the potential energy surface is very well converged with respect to the number of DFT data points, as well as to the fitting process. The dissociation probabilities of HCl initially in the ground rovibrational state from six-dimensional quantum dynamical calculations are quite different from the four-dimensional fixed-site calculations, indicating it is essential to perform full-dimensional quantum dynamical studies for the title molecule-surface interaction system.
In this work, we investigate cross-lingual BN features in hybrid ASR systems under a two-level DNNs framework. The first level DNNs are bottleneck feature extractors and the second level DNNs serve as not only acoustic models but also feature combination modules. Different feature configurations, including the bottleneck dimensionality, the need of delta processing and the necessity of concatenation with standard features of target-language, are first studied. Further experiments are done to evaluate the cross-lingual generalization in a more holistic manner using optimized features. We then analyze the effects of adding more training data on the BN feature extractors. Performance improvement can be obtained when more data available. Finally, two different approaches of utilizing data from non-target languages are experimentally compared. It is shown that these two approaches have similar performance with each other, and the two-level DNNs architecture benefits from either of them.
Recently, the application of complex-valued neural networks (CVNNs) for real-valued classification has attracted more and more attention. To overcome the limitations of the existing CVNNs, this study extends the real-valued group method of data handling (RGMDH) type neural network to complex domain, and constructs complex-valued GMDH-type neural network (CGMDH). First, it proposes the complex least squares for parameter estimation, and then constructs the complex external criterion to evaluate and select the middle candidate models. We conduct experiments in 10 UCI real-valued classification datasets. The results show that the performance of CGMDH is better than that of RGMDH and other four models. At the same time, the convergence speed of CGMDH is faster than that of RGMDH.
A new acoustic model based on deep neural network (DNN) has been introduced recently and outperforms the conventional Gaussian mixture model (GMM) in speech recognition on several tasks. However, the number of parameters required by a DNN model is much larger than that of its counterpart. The excessive cost of computation cumbers the implementation of DNN in many scenarios. In this paper, a DNN-based speech recognizer is implemented on an embedded platform. To reduce model size and computation cost, the DNN model is converted from float-point to fixed-point and NEON instructions are applied. The speed is further improved as a result of the downsizing of the DNN model via singular value decomposition (SVD) reconstruction. The work is evaluated on an ARM Cortex-A7 platform and 12x reduction of model size and 15x speedup of calculation are achieved without any noticeable accuracy loss.
In this paper, we establish a decentralized control law to stabilize a class of nonlinear interconnected large-scale systems using a neural-network-based online model-free integral policy iteration algorithm. The model-free approach can solve the decentralized control problem for the interconnected system which has unknown dynamics. The stabilizing decentralized control strategy is derived based on the optimal control policies of the isolated subsystems. The online model-free integral policy iteration algorithm is developed to solve the optimal control problems for the isolated subsystems with unknown system dynamics. The actor-critic technique and the least squares implementation method are used to obtain the optimal control policies. A simulation example is given to verify the applicability of the decentralized control strategy.
In this paper, we consider continuous-state systems and pursue a near-optimal policy through online learning. A new online reinforcement learning algorithm-MSEC (Multi-Samples in Each Cell) is proposed. The proposed algorithm combines state aggregation technique and efficient exploration principle, making high utilization of samples observed online. More concretely, we apply a grid over the continuous state space and partition it into different cells. Then, a near-upper Q iteration operator is defined to use samples in each cell and produce a near-upper Q function, whose corresponding greedy policy is efficient for exploration. MSEC is a totally model-free algorithm, which means no system dynamics is required during the implementation. It collects the system knowledge during the online learning. Based on PAC (Probability Approximately Correct) principle, MSCE can find a near-optimal policy in finite time bound online. To test the performance, an inverted pendulum is simulated and the results show the new algorithm is qualified for solving online optimal control problems.
This paper investigates real-time road detection for an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) to navigate in a campus environment. A novel vision system with two monocular cameras at different heights and angles is utilized to accomplish both road region detection and direction estimation tasks simultaneously. An Adaboost-based classifier is used in the road region detection in order to handle the road surface's diversity, and a vanishing point tracking technique is used to estimate the road direction. To describe the unstructured road spaces with an accurate model, a RANSAC Spline Fitting algorithm is adopted to delineate the road borders based on the data fusion results from vision and lasers. Extensive experiments are carried out by using a real UGV platform in a campus environment and results show the feasibility and performance of the proposed approach.
AFM based nano robotics uses the tip to perform observing and maneuvering with high resolution and accuracy. The tip position uncertainties in the task space due to the PZT nonlinearity and thermal drift is compensated by using the landmarks existing in the task region. This method can detect and control the accuracy of the relative position between AFM tip and the interest object. However, as for the complex situations including several features and seldom features in the task regions, the tip trajectory need to be planned, and its position accuracy is required to be retained in the allowance. So this paper proposes the stochastic trajectory planning and navigation based on local scan by using the shortest path according to the tip motion model. The observation distance is defined and landmark adjacency matrix is established for designing the observed landmarks. Also the landmark domain is defined to actively configure the feature. The simulation and experimental results are performed to illustrate the efficiency of the proposed method.
The second generation of Kinect sensor is a revolutionary multiple cameras including RGB camera, infrared camera to differentiate depth, infrared camera and audio array. In this paper, we first introduce the differences between the Kinect and Kinect2.0 sensor. Then a system of Kinect2.0 based human interaction system for mobile robot is presented. The function of skeleton tracking of Kinect2.0 is used to identify a specific person in the depth image. Finally, people's heart rate detection method is proposed using RGB camera of Kinect2.0. Preliminary experiments verify that the designed measurement system is effective.
In this paper, a novel generalized policy iteration algorithm is investigated to solve infinite horizon optimal control problems for discrete-time nonlinear systems. Two iteration indices are introduced in the generalized policy iteration algorithm, which iterate for policy improvement and policy evaluation, respectively. For the first time the properties of monotonicity, convergence and admissibility for the generalized policy iteration algorithm are analyzed to guarantee that the iterative performance index function converges to the optimum and the iterative control law stabilizes the control system. Finally, numerical results are presented to illustrate the performance of the developed method.
In this paper, we investigate the connectivity conditions on consensus of discrete-time multi-agent systems with time-varying communication graph. We consider quite general switching communication topologies, whose length between the switching moments may tend to infinity with the well-known uniformly joint connectivity as its special case. We prove that the persistent graph of this network communication graph plays an important role in the agreement seeking, and give necessary and sufficient conditions for the global consensus.
Autonomous detecting and tracking of mobile ground robots are two fundamental tasks for the cooperation between quadrotor UAVs and UGVs. In our work, a T-shape landmark is installed on the top of a ground robot so that the quadrotor can use onboard monocular camera to perform fast object detection. Considering the effects of shading, shadows and varying lighting condition, the adaptive thresholding algorithm and topology analysis on a binary image are adopted to accomplish online T-shape landmark detection. Since both the quadrotor and the ground robot are in the continuous moving state, a hybrid particle filter algorithm is presented to implement robust object tracking with a low computational cost. To solve the problem of particle measurement matching optimization, a method of achieving least uncertainty measurement based on Mahalanobis rule and minimum Euclidian distance is utilized in this paper. A series of experiment results with monocular vision in an indoor environment show our approach's validity.
This paper considers a global robust output consensus problem for multi-agent nonlinear systems by general directed output interactions. For heterogeneous and minimum-phase nonlinear agents transformable into an output-feedback form, it is shown that the problem is solvable by an internal model approach under certain mild conditions. A dynamic output-feedback protocol is developed by converting the output consensus into a distributed stabilization of an augmented dynamic network.
In the past decade, adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) has been widely used to realize online learning tracking control of dynamical systems, where neural networks with manually designed features are commonly used. In order to improve the generalization capability and learning efficiency of ADP, this paper presents a novel framework of ADP with sparse kernel machines by integrating kernel methods and approximately linear dependence (ALD) analysis into the critic module of ADP for the optimal tracking controller design. An ADP algorithm based on sparse kernel learning and heuristic dynamic programming (HDP) is proposed, that is, kernel HDP (KHDP). Based on KHDP, an experiment is established. By simulation, the effectiveness of proposed algorithm is demonstrated.
Implementing automatic visual tracking for underwater robots often remains a great challenge. In this paper, we demonstrate an active visual tracking case with a free-swimming robotic fish by use of a combination of TI DM3730-centered embedded hardware and software. Specifically, automatic recognition algorithms mainly involving color-based identification and shape-based identification are proposed. In parallel with the enhanced target recognition, an improved real-time location method based on the weighed histogram representation of the target model that synthesizes the CAMSHIFT algorithm and the Kalman filter, is put forward. After that, a fuzzy logic controller based on the CPG model is employed to generate control signals related to the desired target. Aquatic experiments validate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithms.
Environment perception system is the base of autonomous navigation and control task of a mobile robot, therefore, the strength of the environment perception will impact the intelligence of a robot directly. A vision measurement algorithm based on four-lines structured light for robots environment perception is proposed in this paper. The algorithm is implemented on an embedded image processing board which contains an FPGA and a DSP. Four line lasers project four laser lines on the object to be measured, and a camera captures the image that contains light stripes which have been modulated by the surface of the object. Then the 3D coordinates of points on the laser lines can be obtained through the distortion of light stripes in the image. Each light stripe is limited in a certain region of the image so as to not overlap with each other. Therefore, the installation angle of every laser has been limited in a certain range. A sectional line fitting algorithm is proposed to improve the accuracy of centers of light stripes, thus improving the accuracy of the whole measurement system. A number of measurement results validate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Furthermore, we combine the 3D information obtained by the proposed method with the 2D edge feature of the image to construct a rough depth map of the environment.
In this paper, we consider the synchronization problem for a network of state diffusive coupled agents with identical but time-varying dynamics under switching communication topologies. Both leader-follower and leaderless networks are studied. For leader-follower networks, sufficient conditions are established regarding the connectivity of communication graphs for the network to achieve global exponential or asymptotic synchronization, respectively, for directed and undirected communications. For leaderless networks, sufficient conditions for asymptotic norm synchronization are established, respectively, for directed and undirected communications, in the sense that the norm of agents' states converges to a common value. We also show that if the communication graph is fixed, norm synchronization leads to state synchronization. The results reveal some important similarities and differences between leaderless and leader-follower networks for synchronization under directed switching communication graphs.
In this paper, we consider the distributed consensus of high-dimensional first-order agents with relative-state-dependent measurement noises. Each agent can measure or receive its neighbors' state information with random noises, whose intensity is a nonlinear vector function of agents' relative states. For this kind of multi-agent networks, it is a prominent feature that the dynamics associated with the network uncertainties interact with the dynamics of agents' states in a distributed information architecture. By investigating the structure of this interaction and the tools of stochastic differential equations, we develop some small consensus gain theorems to give sufficient conditions to ensure mean square and almost sure consensus, based on which we prove that the connectivity of the network is the necessary and sufficient condition for the existence of control gain matrices to achieve asymptotically unbiased mean square average-consensus.
Localization of an autonomous mobile robot has always been a topic of interest in Robotics community. The constraints of working under different environments are constantly a challenge in designing an efficient localization system. We propose a localization algorithm for a mobile robot, which will be used for home security. The objective is to perform indoor localization efficiently and keeping the cost as low as possible so as to make it commercializable. Here, we introduce an approach based on recognizing a pattern generated by laser pointers on the wall, which is captured by an infrared camera. The image of this pattern is used to locate the position of a robot in the room. The problem of working under black ceiling has been overcomed because the projection is on the wall and is moving which also increases the range of operation. As the pattern is unique, the interference of strong sunlight has also been fixed to some extent. Experimental results show that the proposed approach is effective in real environment and opens new doors for future research.
A robust control scheme for high angle of attack tracking of one class of missiles with reaction jets is presented. The control scheme contains an adaptive SMC controller and a control moment allocator. In the former, an adaptive compensator based on radial basis function neural network is used to eliminate chattering by compensating the missile disturbances and uncertainties. The latter is designed to coordinate the fins and the reaction jets. The main advantage of our proposed robust control scheme is that no knowledge of the boundaries of the system uncertainties and external disturbances is required in advance; meanwhile, the chattering phenomenon that frequently appears in conventional sliding mode control systems is also eliminated without deteriorating the system fast-response characteristic and robustness. Besides, the adaptive compensator contains only one parameter updated online. With Lyapunov stability theory, the closed-loop system is proved stable and convergence properties of the system are assured. Numerical simulation results illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed robust control scheme.
In order for decreasing the weight of industrial robot manipulator with high stiffness, the sandwich panel structure is adopted for the parallel laser welding robot manipulators. So, about 37% of the weights of robot manipulators is reduced in our research. The straight line and circle welding joint experiments are made by the parallel laser welding robot with three branches. The end precision of the robot is surveyed online by the ClVILVI (Cordinate Measuring Machine). The measurement data indicate that the end position precision of parallel robots is about 0.2mm. The end posture precision is about 0.05 degrees. Laser welding seams are of good qualities. Experimental results verify that the end accuracy of the robot can meet the requirement of laser welding with high precisions and high stiffness. It is feasible that robot manipulators adopt the sandwich plate structure for the accurate operations.
In this paper, we present a cognitive routing and wavelength assignment (RWA) algorithm for dynamic optical networks, named CRWA algorithm. Different from the traditional RWA algorithm, a cognitive model derived from the Case-Based Reasoning (CBR) is introduced into the proposed algorithm to reduce computing complexity. Simulation results show that the computational time of CRWA is reduced about 25% compared to that of traditional RWA algorithm.
This paper addresses the leader escort control problem of multi-agent systems and discusses how the agents can be effectively separated into two groups to move symmetrically around their leader. A distributed design is given to escort the moving leader under an undirected switching graph, based on a neighbor-based state-estimation rule to estimate the leader's state and a neighbor-based escort controller. With the help of graph theory, the problem can be solved, and related simulations are proposed for illustration.
In this paper, an indoor navigation algorithm is proposed for the purpose of robot autonomous path planning. Due to the complex situation in indoor environments, it can cause a serious trouble for robot to identify the route during patrolling, especially for corner and door detection, which is the key step for intelligent navigation. To solve this problem, a kinect sensor is used for the door detection and corner location via depth images. The continuously varied ratios and depth difference in the images have been analyzed for the corner and door identification. Furthermore, the precise position of the doors and corners can be localized via the 3-dimensional characteristics of the depth images. Experiments in different scenarios have been performed to verify the efficacy of the algorithm for robot indoor autonomous navigation.
This paper studies the output consensus problem of single-input single-output (SISO) multi-agent systems. It is assumed that the multi-agent system works in a noisy environment (state noises, measurement noises and communication noises). A dynamic output-feedback based protocol is proposed to solve the stochastic output consensus problem in this setting. It is proved that the mathematical expectations of relative outputs between agents are convergent to zero, and the second-order moments of relative outputs between agents are uniformly bounded. Finally, some simulation examples are presented to demonstrate this phenomenon.
In this paper, the containment control problem of continuous-time double-integrator multi-agent systems is investigated. An aperiodic sampled-data based protocol is induced by using neighboring information with uncertainly time-varying sampling intervals. With the obtained protocol and properties of Laplacian matrix, the containment control problem of continuous-time multi-agent systems is equivalently transformed into a stability problem of discrete-time systems. By fixing a sampling length in the given range, a time-invariant discrete-time system is obtained. Then the systems with variation of sampling intervals can be considered as uncertain systems of the time-invariant discrete-time system. By using small-gain theorem, sufficient conditions are obtained to guarantee stability of uncertain discrete-time systems. The theoretical results are illustrated by some simulations.
In this paper, we consider distributed algorithm based on a continuous-time multi-agent system to solve constrained optimization problem. The global optimization objective function is taken as the sum of agents' individual objective functions under a group of convex inequality function constraints. Because the local objective functions cannot be explicitly known by all the agents, the problem has to be solved in a distributed manner with the cooperation between agents. Here we propose a continuous-time distributed gradient dynamics based on the KKT condition and Lagrangian multiplier methods to solve the optimization problem. We show that all the agents asymptotically converge to the same optimal solution with the help of a constructed Lyapunov function and a LaSalle invariance principle of hybrid systems.
The coordinated tracking problem of networked Euler-Lagrange systems is studied in this paper. According to the knowledge of classical control, an integral term can eliminate the steady-state error when solving the tracking problem. A proportional-integral-derivative (PID) tracking protocol is then first proposed to solve the tracking problem of Euler-Lagrange systems where the leader has a quadratic trajectory. By properly choosing parameters, it is proved that all followers can asymptotically track the leader's quadratic trajectory if the communication topology graph has a spanning tree. Furthermore, a so-called (PID)-D-m tracking protocol is derived by adding some high-order integral terms. It is shown that this (PID)-D-m tracking protocol can solve the tracking problem of networked Euler-Lagrange systems with a leader having the higher-order polynomial trajectory. Finally, two simulation examples are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed protocol.
The purpose of this paper is to address a distributed output consensus design for a class of homogeneous and minimum phase leader-following multi-agent nonlinear systems. When the information digraph contains a directed spanning tree with the leader node as the root, it is shown that the problem can be approached by incorporating a single host internal model. An output feedback based Lyapunov protocol is developed. An example is also given to show the efficiency of the design.
In this paper, we consider the dynamic optimization problem for continuous-time multi-agent systems with agents in the form of double integrators. Different from multi-agent consensus problem, we have to achieve an optimization performance when the agents become consensus. To solve the problem, we give a distributed gradient-based design for the considered multi-agent network under a connected interaction topology, and prove the convergence of the multi-agent systems to the optimization by Lyapunov techniques. Moreover, we also provide simulations to illustrate the theoretical results.
The paper studies the dynamic optimization problem for continuous-time multi-agent systems in the presence of external disturbances. These disturbances consist of unknown constant signals and finite many sinusoidal signals with unknown frequencies, magnitudes and phases. Based on adaptive internal model, a distributed design is proposed to achieve the one-dimensional optimization along with the disturbance rejection under a connected interaction topology. A Lyapunov-based technique is utilized to prove the convergence of the multi-agent systems to the optimization point of the overall optimization problem.
It is well known that vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) aircraft system is a complex multi-variable nonlinear system with large disturbances. In order to control the VTOL aircraft system efficiently, it is necessary to explore new optimal control methods to stabilize the system states. In this paper, we apply dual heuristic programming (DHP) to design the optimal controller for VTOL aircraft system. As a framework of approximate dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm, DHP consists of three modules: model, critic and actor. The critic module output partial derivatives of cost function with respect to state. It has many advantages such as good dynamics, fast convergence rate, and high control resolution. Simulation and experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of optimal controller for VTOL aircraft system based on the DHP algorithm.
As the third generation of artificial neural networks (ANNs), spiking neural networks (SNNs) have many advantages over the traditional ones. Selecting proper spiking neuron models for the design of SNNs is important. In this paper, schematic and training algorithm of spiking integrated and fired (IAF) neuron model and probability spiking neuron model (pSNM) are introduced. By comparing the classification results for mobile robots' corridor-scene-classifier based on IAF model and pSNM, and the control results of mobile robots' wall-following controller based on spiking IAF model and pSNM, the similarities and differences between the two models are discussed. The similar and different features of the two spiking neuron models are obtained. IAF model is more suitable for the design of mobile robots controller than that of pSNM. While pSNM has better noise robust than IAF model. Spiking IAF model and pSNM are suitable for different situations.
This paper studies semi-global leader-following output consensus of a multi-agent system. Each follower agent in the system, described by a general linear system subject to external disturbances and actuator saturation, is to track the leader agent. Conditions on the agent dynamics are identified under which a low gain feedback based linear state control algorithm is constructed for each follower agent such that the leader-following output consensus is achieved when the communication topology among the agents is a directed graph that contains no loop and the leader is globally reachable. In addition, discussions and simulations are also provided for the output consensus in the presence of actuator saturation.
This paper addresses the problem of distributed output tracking for a class of nonlinear multi-agent systems whose linearized systems may have unstable modes. For the case where the graph topology is directed and the leader is the neighbor of only a small portion of followers, distributed tracking control laws are designed. By using the algebra graph theory, it is shown that all the states of the closed-loop system are bounded, and the tracking errors can be tuned to arbitrarily small. Finally, the design procedure is applied to underactuated unstable mechanical multi-agent systems, from which the efficiency of the tracking controllers is demonstrated.
The video surveillance system is widely used in various areas. However, it is an intractable problem to process a large number of video data manually. There are many intelligent systems developed to analyze human behavior and detect unusual events, however, few concerns the cheating behavior in examinations. In this paper, we use video surveillance system to detect cheating behavior in the examination. The pose estimation method is presented to detect the cheating behavior, based on the analysis of the implementation environment. More in detail, the pictorial structure is adopted to model the human body and a required pose and skin color information is utilized to build the human appearance model. Finally, the belief propagation algorithm is used to infer the maximum a posterior pose. The experiment shows the effectiveness of our method.
For the motion system of a LED placement spray wax robot, this paper uses shortest path planning method of optimization theory to plan the robot's motion trajectory. It uses high order polynomial to plan spray wax robot's joint movement. Guided by the determining learning theory, this paper uses radial basis function (RBF) to design an adaptive neural network controller (ANNC). It tracks and controls the motion process of robot to move along the planned trajectory. This ensures the stability and rapidity of robot movement to achieve the purpose of save time and energy. Experiment is conducted using the algorithm designed in this paper, and comparison experiment with PID algorithm is also well done. The experimental results illustrate the effectiveness of the method designed in this paper.
In this paper, the robust optimal control for a class of nonlinear systems with uncertainties is investigated by using single network adaptive dynamic programming approach. The robust controller of the original uncertain nonlinear system is derived by adding a feedback gain to the optimal controller of the nominal system. It is proved that the robust controller can achieve optimality under a specified cost function. Then, a single neural network is constructed for solving the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation corresponding to the nominal system, where an additional stabilizing term is introduced to check the stability. Furthermore, the obtained results are extended to establish the decentralized optimal control strategy for a class of nonlinear interconnected large-scale systems. Finally, a simulation example is provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the control scheme.
Based on the adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm, a new optimal tracking control method is proposed for a class of complex-valued nonlinear systems in this paper. The tracking error is first defined, and then the performance index function which is about the tracking error is given. By transformation, the complex-valued tracking error system is mapped into real-domain. The optimal control method for the tracking error system is presented. The two neural networks are used to be as the critic network and action network, respectively. It is proven that the closed-loop system is uniformly ultimately bounded based on Lyapunov technique. Finally, the simulation study is given to show the effectiveness of the proposed optimal tracking control method for complex-valued nonlinear system.
Repetitive activities of daily living (ADL) and robotic active training are commonly practised in the rehabilitation of paralyzed patients, both of which have been proven rather effective to recover the locomotor function of impaired limbs. ADL classification based on electroencephalogram (EEG) is of great significance to perform active robotic rehabilitation for patients with complete spinal cord injury (SCI) who lose locomotion of affected limbs absolutely, where surface electromyography (sEMG) or active force signal can hardly be detected. It is a challenge to achieve a satisfying result in neuro-rehabilitation robotics using EEG signals due to the high randomness of the EEG data. A classification method is proposed based on spiking neural networks (SNN) to identify the upper-limb ADL of three classes with 14-channel EEG data. The continuous real-number signals are firstly encoded into spike trains through Ben's Spike Algorithm (BSA). The generated spikes are then submitted into a 3-D brain-mapped SNN reservoir called NeuCube trained by Spike Timing Dependant Plasticity (STDP). Spike trains from all neurons of the trained reservoir are finally classified using one version of dynamic evolving spiking neuron networks (deSNN) - deSNNs. Classifications are presented with and without NeuCube respectively on the same EEG data set. Results indicate that using the reservoir improves identification accuracy which turns out pretty promising despite that EEG data is highly noisy, low frequently sampled, and only from 14 channels. The classification technique reveals a great potential for the further implementation of active robotic rehabilitation to the sufferers of complete SCI.
Deep learning models can obtain state-of-the-art performance across many speech and image processing tasks, often significantly outperforming earlier methods. In this paper, we attempt to further improve the performance of these models by introducing multi-task training, in which a combined deep learning model is trained for two inter-related tasks. We show that by introducing a secondary task (such as shape identification in the object classification task) we are able to significantly improve the performance of the main task for which the model is trained. Using public datasets we evaluated our approach on two image understanding tasks, image segmentation and object classification. On the image segmentation task, we observed that the multi-task model almost doubled the accuracy of segmentation at the pixel-level (from 18.7% to 35.6%) compared to the single task model, and improved the performance of face-detection by 10.2% (from 70.1% to 80.3%). For the object classification task, we observed a 2.1% improvement in classification accuracy (from 91.6% to 93.7%) compared to a single-task model. The proposed multi-task models obtained significantly higher accuracies than previously published results on these datasets, obtaining 22.0% and 6.2% higher accuracies on the face-detetction and object classification tasks respectively. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of multi-task training of deep learning models for image understanding tasks.
Android is a modern and popular software platform for smartphones. To manage information and features on smartphones, Android employs intent-based mechanism for interapplication or intra-application communication and provides a permission-based security model that requires each application to explicitly request permissions in its manifest file. However, misconfiguration defined in manifest files and that embedded in application code may result in vulnerabilities due to developer confusion and general misuse of the features provided by Android. In this paper, we propose a logic-programming-based approach to analyze smartphones and discover misconfiguration vulnerabilities in Android manifest file and application code. To enable misconfiguration vulnerability analysis and detection, we develop a static technique to extract security related information from application code, and employ logic predicates to describe various vulnerabilities. Based on this approach, we developed a tool called SADroid to systematically analyze and detect misconfiguration vulnerabilities in Android smartphones. Our results with two representative phones show that the inherent weakness of Android permission model and developers' programming errors make Android vulnerable to some attacks.
The leader-following consensus problem of multi-agent systems over finite fields F-p is considered in this paper. Dynamics of each agent is governed by a general linear equation over F-p, and a distributed control protocol is assigned to each follower. Necessary and sufficient conditions on system matrices and graph weights are provided for the followers to track the leader.
In this paper, the data rate problem in quantized consensus is considered for a special kind of high-order multi-agent systems. Each agent is in the form of a 2m-th order real Jordan matrix consisting of m pairs of conjugate poles on the unit circle, and only the first state can be measured. Under a connected undirected communication network, a quantized observer-based encoding-decoding scheme is designed and a distributed control law based on the outputs of the encoders and decoders is proposed. With the help of perturbation analysis as well as combinatorial identities, it is shown that the data rate is dependent on the position of the poles and 2m bits of information exchange suffices to achieve the consensus at an exponential convergence rate.
In this paper, we study the set target aggregation problem of multiple mechanical systems. Each system is modeled by a Lagrangian dynamical equation and observes a convex set as its local target. The objective of the group is to reach an aggregation towards these target sets. We propose a set target aggregation algorithm that is constructed based on each mechanical system's own target sensing and the exchange of its information with local neighbors. With necessary connectivity for both fixed and switching communication topologies, multiple mechanical systems are shown to converge to the intersection of all the local target sets while the vectors of generalized coordinate derivatives are driven to zero. Simulations are given to validate the theoretical results.
The neuronal networks are considered as the origin of intelligence in organisms. In this paper, a new hybrid neuro-robot system merging the biological intelligence to the artificial intelligence was created. It was based on a neuronal controller bi-directionally connected to an actual mobile robot implementing a novel vehicle which was aimed at searching objects. The modified software architecture and home-made stimulation generator were employed to support a bi-directional exchange of information between the biological and the artificial part by means of simple binomial coding/decoding schemes. Eventually, the dissociated neuronal network could be successfully employed to control an artificial agent to find the objects. And the robot performed better and better along with the times of trials in one experiment because of the short-term plasticity. A new framework was provided to investigate the biological-artificial bi-directional interfaces for the development of innovative strategies for brain-machine interaction in these simplified model systems.
Face gender recognition is a challenging problem in the traditional field of pattern recognition. In this paper, we propose a deep learning model that can learn the joint high-level and low-level features of human face to address this problem. Our deep neural networks apply convolution and subsampling in extracting the local and abstract features of human face, and reconstruct the raw input images to learn global and effective features as supplementary information at the same time. We also add a trainable weight in the networks when combining the two kinds of features to realize the final gender classification. Experiment results show that our method achieves the highest accuracy compared with existing methods, when test on the mixed face dataset. Further, in the generalization test, the average classification rate on 3 public datasets of our method is 5% higher than the joint Local Binary Pattern (LBP) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) method, and is nearly 1% higher than the SVM with face pixels method. This proves our method outperforms the traditional methods in both learning ability and generalization ability.
Recently, deep neural networks(DNNs) have achieved excellent results on benchmarks for acoustic modeling of speech recognition. By randomly discarding network units, a strategy which is called as dropout can improve the performance of DNNs by reducing the influence of over-fitting. However, the random dropout strategy treats units indiscriminately, which may lose information on distributions of units outputs. In this paper, we improve the dropout strategy by differential treatment to units according to their outputs. Only minor changes to an existing neural network system can achieve a significant improvement. Experiments of phone recognition on TIMIT show that the sparse dropout fine-tuning gets significant performance improvement.
Application Layer Distributed Denial of Service (ALDDoS) attacks have been increasing rapidly with the growth of Botnets and Ubiquitous computing. Differentiate to the former DDoS attacks, ALDDoS attacks cannot be efficiently detected, as attackers always adopt legitimate requests with real IP address, and the traffic has high similarity to legitimate traffic. In spite of that, we think, the attackers' browsing behavior will have great disparity from that of the legitimate users'. In this paper, we put forward a novel user behavior-based method to detect the application layer asymmetric DDoS attack. We introduce an extended random walk model to describe user browsing behavior and establish the legitimate pattern of browsing sequences. For each incoming browser, we observe his page request sequence and predict subsequent page request sequence based on random walk model. The similarity between the predicted and the observed page request sequence is used as a criterion to measure the legality of the user, and then attacker would be detected based on it. Evaluation results based on real collected data set has demonstrated that our method is very effective in detecting asymmetric ALDDoS attacks.
We propose a novel machine learning model for classification problems, Deep Twin Support Vector Machine(DTWSVM), which combines TWSVM with deep learning ideas. TWSVM is a successful algorithm for classification problems which seeks two nonparallel hyperplanes to make each hyperplane close to one class and far from the other as much as possible. And Deep Learning(DL) models have shown good ability in feature extraction and dimension reduction by constructing multi-layer network. Since the feature extraction in DL can reduce feature dimension while maintain the main information of original inputs, we consider constructing a threelayer network which contains input layer, hidden layer and output layer. We use two TWSVMs in the hidden layer to extract features based on the projection principle which is derived from Multi-Layer Perceptron(MLP). The two TWSVMs will get four hyperplanes by solving four convex quadratic programs. A new dataset which consists of the extracted features with four feature dimensions is produced from the hidden layer and then we can input it to the main TWSVM of the output layer to make final prediction. Similar as TWSVM, we design linear DTWSVM and nonlinear DTWSVM which have been proved to be very effective in classification problems. In numerical experiments, we have obtained 100% prediction accuracy for several datasets which is state-of-the-art performance absolutely!
A mother or transporting robot is designed in this paper, which is dedicated to retrieve, transport and deploy the children or smaller robots to configure a robotic team called the marsupial robotic system. In order to manage children robots flexibly, a multi-floor docking station is mounted on the mother robot with a lifting platform which is dragged via lead-screw driving. Touch switches are utilized to initialize the lifting height and identify whether a child robot arrives at the parking position. Also, a dock camera is set on the top of the station to recognize different children robots for the purpose of deploying or retrieving. The locomotion ability is enhanced by combining the advantages of the wheeled-mobile platform and tracked-mobile platform with the concept of wheel-track combo, which barely increases the complexity of mechanism. Finally, a prototype of mother robot is developed and implemented.
In manufacturing industry or equipment painting fields, the equipment may have minor shape changes. In order to obtain a better fabrication or painting results, it is required to get an accurate on-site 3D data of the equipment rapidly. A new path generating method on industrial robot with 3D scanner is proposed in this paper. The main idea of the method is to obtain a coarse model of the equipment from the CAD and translate it into the robot coordinate system. Then the model is segmented into flatness zones. Meaningful zone information and collision detection are used to generate the scanning path which could be used by the robots directly. The simulation and the on-site experiment results show its effectiveness and feasibility using the ABB's 5400 robot and TOF depth camera.
Quadruped robots have the superiority to locomote on complicated terrains. However, in unknown environments, adaptive locomotion is still a great challenge. Considering the terrains including convex obstacles and forbidden areas, a novel motion planning algorithm is investigated for path planning, gait generation, gait transition and foothold searching. According to the terrain maps built by on-board stereo vision, the quadruped robot chooses the suitable gaits independently. Walk gait is selected on unstructured road segments for more stability while trot gait is employed on flat ground for higher speed. The motion trajectories are performed in the low level compliant control based on the kinematics and the couple dynamics which depends on stance phase and swing phase. The emphases of our inverse dynamics model are the analyses of the couple influences between four legs and the transition between different motion stages. The control architecture is applied on a real quadruped robot, and the experiment results demonstrate the availability of the system.
The localization information is the premise of robot autonomous navigation. In this paper, intelligent vehicle is used as a platform for the present study. We perceive motion information and environment signpost information through wheel speed sensor and laser infrared radar SICK respectively, and realize the global localization of the vehicle with the fusion of the particle filter algorithm. The experimental result shows that when the environment signpost position is known, the global positioning error can be less than 1m.
Much more attention has been paid to collision detection for the safety in the complex task of manufacture or physical human-robot interaction. A novel collision detection algorithm is proposed for coordinated industrial robots in this paper. According to the actual situation, the links and the joints of the 6 DOF arc welding robots are simplified as some simple geometries. For its accuracy and effectiveness, we can determine whether the collision occurs through calculating the shortest distance between two geometries. A calculation method is proposed that are based on the most value of the binary function for the calculation of the shortest distance between the coordinated robot geometries. Then we use MATAB to simulate the algorithm. And the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm is verified by simulation in ADAMS.
Recently, the open-source robot operating system (ROS) has been growing rapidly in the robotics community. However, the ROS runs on Linux, which does not provide timing guarantees for robot motion. This paper present a hybrid real-time ROS architecture on multi-core processor "RGMP-ROS", which consists of two parts including the non-real-time subsystem "GPOS (General Operating system)" and the real-time one "RTOS (Real-time Operating system)". The GPOS is comprised of non-real-time ROS nodes running in Linux, while the RTOS only contains real-time ROS nodes running in Nuttx. To get higher operational efficiency, the RGMP-ROS system is executed by a dual-core processor, one CPU for GPOS and the other for RTOS. The RGMP-ROS has used in the controller of a 6-DOF modular manipulator, and its effectiveness and efficiency are demonstrated by software testing and experiments. The main contributions of the present work lie in the realization of real-time ROS architecture and the application of multi-core processor in the hybrid control of an industrial robot.
The ability to navigate in complex environments is crucial for both animals and mobile robots. Most mobile robots adopt dead reckoning for navigation because of its high efficiency and low cost. In order to use this navigation mechanism, both distance information and directional information must be available. In this research, a real-time three-channel camera-based polarization navigation sensor is developed to provide directional information for robot navigation. The accuracy of the sensor can be kept within 0.3 degrees and the sampling rate of the sensor can reach up to 10 fps. For the purpose of navigation, the developed polarization sensor is compared with a compass through outdoor experiments and a new calibration method for the polarization sensor in the outdoor experiments is proposed. The results of dead reckoning based on the polarization sensor and compass are compared with GPS data. The maximum position errors for the compass and polarization sensor are respectively 7.30 m and 8.36 m. Therefore, the developed low-cost polarization sensor can serve as a useful alternative to compass.
Obstacle avoidance is a key problem required in the mobile robot navigation technology. In this paper, we build up a 3D environment in an intelligent surveillance robot through registration of point clouds and present a method to deal with the obstacle avoidance problem. Firstly, the framework of the intelligent robot is given. Then we register the point clouds from an RGB-D Kinect by applying an ICP (Iterative Closest Point) algorithm. The online processing is done using the ROS system. Next, we propose an approach to avoid obstacles by projecting 3D data to a plane thus 2D technologies which need less computation can be used. Finally, some experimental results are presented to be valid.
Navigation is one of the key issues of biped robot, especially in complicated and uncertain human-living environment. There have been challenges for ensuring the stability, efficiency and security of the biped navigation system. In this paper, a framework utilizing sampling-based footstep planner is proposed for the simulation of the biped navigation. Sensor fusion method is adopted to process and generate the correlated environment information for footstep planning. Two specific experiments have been conducted to validate the functionality and performance of the proposed framework.
In this paper, a mutual information (MI) and Extreme Learning Machine (ELM) based inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) algorithm, which termed as MEIRL, is proposed to construct nonlinear reward function. The basic idea of MIIRL is that, similar to GPIRL, the reward function is learned by using Gaussian process and the importance of each feature is obtained by using automatic relevance determination (ARD). Then mutual information is employed to evaluate the impact of each feature to the reward function, based on which extreme learning machine is introduced along with an adaptive model construction procedure to choose the optimal subset of features and the performance of the original GPIRL algorithm is enhanced as well. Furthermore, to demonstrate the effectiveness of MEIRL, a simulation called highway driving is constructed. The simulation results show that MEIRL is comparable with the state of art IRL algorithms in terms of generalization capability, but more efficient while the number of features is large.
In this paper, a new method based on deep learning for robotics autonomous navigation is presented. Different from the most traditional methods based on fixed models, a convolutional neural network (CNN) modelling technique in Deep learning is selected to extract the feature inspired by the working pattern of the biological brain. This neural network model has muti-layer features where the ambient scenes can be recognized and useful information such as the location of door can be identified. The extracted information can be used for robot navigation, so does the robot can approach the target accurately. In the field experiments, detecting doors and predicting the door poses such tasks are designed in the indoor environment to verify the proposed method. The experimental results demonstrate that the doors can be identified with good performance and the deep learning model is suitable for robot navigation.
Localization is one of the key research topics in robotics. Although computer vision based methodologies such as Augmented Markers provides a realtime localization approach, the sensing range and localization accuracy are the main limitations for applications. In this paper, we proposed the use of a problem solving tool, TRIZ to overcome these limitations. Among the tools provided by TRIZ, we illustrated the selection of principles for problem solving. To enhance the sensing range, a novel AR marker is presented. To improve the localization accuracy, we presented the use of an AR polyhedron for system localization. With the use of an AR cube for illustration, we further developed a new optimization strategy. It is a weighted sum method which aims to optimize the position of the AR cube by considering the orientation of different AR markers captured by a camera. To evaluate the proposed methods, different experiments have been conducted including static and dynamic localizations. Results show that the proposed solutions and strategy can significantly improve the sensing range and accuracy of the conventional AR localization system.
In order to interact with human flexibly, the robots need lightweight structure to adjust their configuration conveniently and further save operation energy. It is a challenge in design when the robots are proceeding tasks with a huge and heavy body. This paper presents an improved framework of the humanoid robot optimized by the evolutionary structural optimization (ESO) method for lightweight design. By analyzing the force of the structure using the finite element software, the location with maximum stresses much smaller than allowable stresses of the materials was found and then removed. By comparison, the weight of the optimized framework achieved 50.15% less than the original one without changing the stiffness and vibration performance, improving the material utilization and extending the service time of the battery.
This article proposes a new design of a 3D unfolded/tightened mechanism based on the spine structure of golden tree snake, which can realize torsion and bending. Inspired by golden tree snake vertebrae space deformation characteristics, analyzing the anatomy characteristics of the golden tree snake spine bone and muscle distribution characteristics, The bionic mechanism and drive unit can drive the 3D unfolded/tightened mechanism and meet the demand of unfolded/tightened mechanism pose and adjustment, compared with the traditional unfolded/tightened mechanism. In this paper, dynamics model of this robot established by Lagrange method is represented.
Foraging Task is a typical task on swarm robotic and Building Task (extend from blocks world) is widely used for testing performance of task planning in multi-robots. In this paper we combine foraging and building task as a new type task and implement on our swarm robotic system-SociBuilder. The platform is composed of three parts: active region, modules and many robots called Socibots. In order to execute the task automatically and effectively, we propose a new system architecture including three layers: human-computer interaction layer (HCI), planning layer and execution layer. For the same reason, we put forward a novel algorithm to adjust individual behavior dynamically. As a result of our experiments, Socibots use only local information and do not need communication with others in forage, and fewer individuals are centralized control for building task. The architecture and algorithm are effective in swarm robotics, which guide system to perform complex task with less burden.
This paper intends to create a simulation of manipulator and illustrates the methods of how to implement robot control in a short time. Here we complete the grasp and place mission using Gazebo virtual world and Robot Operating System (ROS). ROS is a distributed framework that is widely used in robotics. Considering the advantages of its easier hardware abstraction and code reuse, ROS was chosen to rapidly organize task architecture and, due to its compatibility with ROS, Gazebo was chosen as the main platform to simulate the designated motion of virtual manipulator.
A complex or ill-structured problem cannot be solved only replying on computer since they require human's nonlinear thinking and even innovation. In this paper, taking respective advantages of computer and human, we propose a novel computational knowledge environment (CKE) where human is able to cognize tacit and new knowledge for complex or ill-structured problem solving, through fusing potential knowledge discovered from the collected information data supported by computer. Following the CKE framework, we develop a creativity technique called InnoSpider which greatly support human's perception, intuition, reasoning and cognition for quick decision making. A case study have verified the effectiveness of CKE, and have indicated InnoSpider can drive human to make high-quality decisions in a shorter time.
The power grid in China has a series of problems of aged infrastructure, lack of resources and increased energy demand. The construction of smart grid is an important way to solve the above problems. The energy management and optimal adjustment in distributed power grid is the key for the system function realization, and several issues should be addressed: 1) How to effectively manage the uncertainties of the intermittent power sources; 2) How to manage the energy transferring equipment and diversities of the load varieties; 3) Under different operational constraints, how to realize the high-level unification for multi-source distribution network economic operation and the reliability of power supply. The project will focus on these tasks based on load models considering the dual direction of the information between the energy suppliers and end users. It can reduce the energy generation cost, improve the energy quality, decrease the tariff, carbon emission and satisfy the user demands. The research will provide new infrastructure and technology support to smart grids with broad industrial application prospect.
An online reinforcement learning algorithm is proposed in this paper to directly utilizes online data efficiently for continuous deterministic systems without system parameters. The dependence on some specific approximation structures is crucial to limit the wide application of online reinforcement learning algorithms. We utilize the online data directly with the kd-tree technique to remove this limitation. Moreover, we design the algorithm in the Probably Approximately Correct principle. Two examples are simulated to verify its good performance.
In the presence of negative weights in communication graph, bipartite consensus is an extension of the traditional consensus problems where the communication weights are all positive. An output-based distributed control protocol is established to solve the bipartite consensus of the homogeneous multi-agent systems. Bipartite consensus problem is equivalent to a linear stabilizable and detectable problem by introducing a gauge transformation. If the multi-agent systems can reach the bipartite consensus, then the signed digraph should be structurally balanced and contains a spanning tree. Finally, the implementation provides three cases to validate the effectiveness of our developed criteria.
Unmanned Helicopter based Aerial Manipulator (UH-AM) is a new conception of aerial robots with arms, which changes the traditional searching RUAVs into operating aerial robots. The same with traditional robotic arms, the end-effector's control accuracy is also important for precise operation in hovering mode, however, it cannot be achievable easily because of the relative disturbance between UH and AM. In this research, the overall dynamics model is firstly developed. Based on the proposed model, to compensate for the disturbance from relative dynamics with rotor system's control delay, a predictive controller is designed to eliminate the errors of position and attitude of the end-effector. Simulation results show its effectiveness in precise air-operation under inner/external disturbance.
The leader-following output consensus problem of multi-agent systems (MAS) is studied in this paper. Each agent is modeled by a single-input single-output (SISO) system which can be further described by a controllable and observable linear state space model. An observer is constructed to estimate the agent's state, and the estimated state is shared with neighbor agents via the noisy communication channels. Similar to the previous work, in the proposed protocol a time-varying gain is employed to attenuate the noise's effect. However, in this paper, each agent is allowed to have its own time-varying gain. Some sufficient conditions on the time-varying gain are given for ensuring the consensus in the mean square sense. Finally, a simulation example is presented to verify the theoretical results.
In this paper, a new generalized value iteration algorithm is developed to solve infinite horizon optimal control problems for discrete-time nonlinear systems. The idea is to use iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) to obtain the iterative control law which makes the iterative performance index function reach the optimum. The generalized value iteration algorithm permits an arbitrary positive semi-definite function to initialize it, which overcomes the disadvantage of traditional value iteration algorithms. When the iterative control law and iterative performance index function in each iteration cannot be accurately obtained, a new design method of the convergence criterion for the generalized value iteration algorithm with finite approximation errors is established to make the iterative performance index functions converge to a finite neighborhood of the lowest bound of all performance index functions. Simulation results are given to illustrate the performance of the developed algorithm.
For the coordination of multi-agent systems with bandwidth limited digital channels, if there are unmeasurable states in agents' dynamics, then to get the estimates of other agents' states by properly designed encoding-decoding scheme is the objective of the cooperative communication and is also the foundation of cooperative control design. In this paper, the concept of cooperatability of digital multi-agent networks is proposed with respect to quantized-observer based communication protocols and certainty equivalence principle based control protocols to characterize the cooperative communication and control in an integrative framework. The cooperatability for linear discrete-time multi-agent systems is investigated with unmeasurable states and limited data rate. Some necessary conditions and sufficient conditions are given for the existence of admissible communication and control protocols to ensure both the cooperative state observation and cooperative stabilization. It is shown that these conditions are quantitatively related to the stabilizability and detectability of agents' dynamics and the topology of the communication network.
In this paper, a model-free and effective approach is proposed to solve infinite horizon optimal control problem for affine nonlinear systems based on adaptive dynamic programming technique. The developed approach, referred to as the actor-critic structure, employs two multilayer perceptron neural networks to approximate the state-action value function and the control policy, respectively. It uses data collected arbitrarily from any reasonable sampling distribution for policy iteration. In the policy evaluation phase, a novel objective function is defined for updating the critic network, and thus makes the critic network converge to the Bellman equation directly rather than iteratively. In the policy improvement phase, the action network is updated to minimize the outputs of the critic network. The two phases alternate until no more improvement of the control policy is observed, such that the optimal control policy is achieved. Two simulation examples are provided to show the effectiveness of the approach.
The distributed tracking problem is investigated for a class of multi-agent systems with high-order stochastic nonlinear dynamics where the subsystem of each agent is driven by inherent nonlinear drift and diffusion terms. For the case where the graph topology is directed and the leader is the neighbor of only a small portion of followers, a new distributed integrator backstepping design method is proposed, and distributed tracking control laws are designed to ensure that the closed-loop system has an almost surely unique solution on [0,infinity), all the states of the closed-loop system are bounded in probability, and the tracking errors can be tuned to arbitrarily small with a tunable exponential converge rate. The efficiency of the tracking controller is demonstrated by a simulation example.
In this paper. the minimum time multi-points traversal problem is studied for robotic manipulators. It is shown that the problem can be formulated as a mixed integer optimal control problem. Cubic Hermite spline is applied to interpolate the desired path points and then a decomposition method is proposed to solve the problem. An outer level iteration and a series of inner level optimization processes are used in the decomposition method. The outer level iteration aims to search optimal permutation of the path points, which is realized by Genetic Algorithm (GA). And the inner level processes aim to cope with a series of path determined minimum time motion planning problems, which are solved by a direct transcription method. Minimum time multi-points traversal task of a 2-DOF robotic manipulator is used to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Synchronization is a ubiquitous phenomenon in nature. Over the last two decades, the synchronization of complex networks receives an increasing attention. This paper aims at developing a new pinning synchronization approach for complex networks by using the heterogeneous information of different nodes cooperatively. Heterogeneous information means the different observation of the reference signal. In detail, different from the traditional pinning control idea, this paper utilizes different feedback gains to cope with the corresponding personalized observations of a specific static reference signal for each node to realize network synchronization. Based on our proposed method, this paper obtains three fundamental pinning synchronization theorems with necessary and sufficient conditions for undirected connected networks, strongly connected networks, and networks with a spanning tree, respectively. Following the above theorems, this paper also designs the feedback gains and coupling strength for networks to achieve synchronization. Finally, the numerical simulations are given to validate the proposed approach.
In this paper synchronization of both the orientation and velocity for a group of unicycle robots is studied. It is assumed that a robot can only detect and obtain information from those robots that lie in the proximity (within certain distance). A minimum dwell time is imposed on the updating of neighborhood relation in the controller in order to avoid introducing chattering in the closed-loop system that may be caused by abrupt changes of the relation, which as a consequence implies that the neighbor information will be updated only at discrete time instants in the control. In the paper a distributed feedback control law is designed for each agent, and a sufficient condition for uniformly and independently distributed initial states is provided for reaching the synchronization, which depends on the neighborhood radius, the maximum initial translational velocity and the dwell time.
Equipping manipulators on a mobile robot to actively influence its surroundings has been extensively used in many ground robots,underwater robots and space robots systems. However, it is difficult to make such re-design in a Rotor Flying Robot (RFR). This is mainly because 1)the equipped manipulator will bring heavy coupling between it and the RFR system, which makes the whole system model highly complicated and makes the central controller design impossible. 2)the movement of the manipulator will introduce a great deal time-varying disturbance to the RFR system, which makes distributed control design also challenging. Thus, in this paper, utilizing the Euler-Lagrange equation, the highly accurate dynamics model of a combined system, called Rotor-Flying Multi-Joint Manipulator (RF-MJM), is constructed and its complexity is analyzed and presented. Then, a linearized full-state feedback Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR)controller is designed for the aircraft to hover near a trim point. Finally, simulations using MATLAB are conducted and the results are analyzed to show the basic control performance of the LQR controller.
The sEMG based movement recognition developed rapidly in recent years, which focus on intention estimation that velocity and angle of movement joint are not concerned. This paper proposed a quantitative analysis method of sEMG, with ability to estimate motion of human joints, which can be used to control rehabilitation robot system control by patient's own intention. The quantitative model of the relationship between sEMG signals and movement joint was established utilizing error Back Propagation artificial Neural Network and support vector machine with a Gaussian kernel, where the features of sEMG were taken as input. Considering of the actual demands of rehabilitation, the 1-DOF, 2-DOFs and 3-DOFs movement experiments were supposed to collect the information of joint angle and sEMG signals for model training. The result shows the angle prediction curve outputted by model of SVM has more than 90% consistency with the actual movement, while the model of BPNN gets a more imprecise output with complexity of movement arising. Initial online experiments on rehabilitation robot controlled by a healthy subject demonstrate that sEMG based movement control using the proposed method is feasible.
Intelligent rock mechanics (IRM) has become an important aspect of rock engineering design, as one of the most popular non-1:1 mapping techniques [1]. Since its advent in 1993, IRM has aimed to provide an alternative research scheme for complicated rock mechanics problems. With successful applications in rock engineering, the past 20 years have seen progress in new directions, both in rock mechanics modelling and rock engineering design. This work reviews the 20 years of development of IRM and covers some of the most important intelligent modelling methods and integrated intelligent design concepts that have been developed, with a focus on the evolution of integrated intelligent design concepts with applications to various rock engineering projects in China.
This paper studies the appearance learning of object tracking in challenging scenes. We propose a new appearance modeling approach in the deep learning architecture for object tracking. Visual prior is learned from a large set of unlabeled images. Then it is transferred to the appearance model during tracking. Traditional trackers usually do tracking before updating at every input image. Drift may occur when there are complex appearance variations. We propose to update the appearance model before tracking. This can effectively prevent tracking failures when there are complex appearance changes. And the motion parameters estimation could be more accurate with the updated appearance model. Experimental results on challenging videos demonstrate the robustness and accuracy of the proposed algorithm compared with several state of the art approaches.
Automatic traffic sign recognition (TSR) expects high accuracy and speed for real-time applications in intelligent transportation systems. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have yielded state-of-the-art performance on the public dataset GTSRB, but involve intensive computation. In this paper, we propose a traffic sign recognition method using computationally efficient feature extraction and classification techniques, and using the perturbation strategy to improve the accuracy. On the GTSRB dataset, using gradient direction histogram feature and learning vector quantization (LVQ) classifier achieves a test accuracy 98.48%. Using simple perturbation operations of image translation, the accuracy is improved to 98.88%. The accuracy is higher than that of single CNN and the speed is much higher.
This study provides a new application of convolutional neural networks for drowsiness detection based on electrooculography (EOG) signals. Drowsiness is charged to be one of the major causes of traffic accidents. Such application is helpful to reduce losses of casualty and property. Most attempts at drowsiness detection based on EOG involve a feature extraction step, which is accounted as time-consuming task, and it is difficult to extract effective features. In this paper, an unsupervised learning is proposed to estimate driver fatigue based on EOG. A convolutional neural network with a linear regression layer is applied to EOG signals in order to avoid using of manual features. With a postprocessing step of linear dynamic system (LDS), we are able to capture the physiological status shifting. The performance of the proposed model is evaluated by the correlation coefficients between the final outputs and the local error rates of the subjects. Compared with the results of a manual ad-hoc feature extraction approach, our method is proven to be effective for drowsiness detection.
This paper presents a novel observer-critic architecture for solving the near-optimal control problem of uncertain nonlinear continuous-time systems. Two neural networks (NNs) are employed in the architecture: an observer NN is constructed to get the knowledge of uncertain system dynamics and a critic NN is utilized to derive the optimal control. The observer NN and the critic NN are tuned simultaneously. By using the recorded and instantaneous data together, the optimal control can be derived without the persistence of excitation condition. Meanwhile, the closed-loop system is guaranteed to be stable in the sense of uniform ultimate boundedness. No initial stabilizing control is required in the developed algorithm. An illustrated example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the present approach.
The relationship between seed germination rate and environmental temperature is complex. This study assessed the effectiveness of multi-layer perceptron (MLP) and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) techniques in modeling and predicting the germination rate of two common bean cultivars as a function of distinct temperatures. MLP was utilized to model the germination rate of the cultivars and PSO was employed to determine the optimum temperatures at which the beans germinate most rapidly. The outcomes derived from implementing the MLP were compared with those obtained by means of a traditional statistical method. The MLP provided more accurate results than the conventional statistical regression in predicting germination rate values regarding the two common bean cultivars. The optimum germination rate values derived from implementing the PSO model were more accurate than those obtained by using the conventional quadratic regression.
This paper investigates the application of deep models including deep maxout networks(DMNs) to Mandarin tone recognition. Our focus is on the capacity of extracting high-level robust features and fusing different kinds of serially-concatenated features of deep models. Furthermore, Maxout networks have been proposed to integrate dropout naturally and achieve state-of-the-art results. Therefore, we investigate the advantage of DMNs when the training data is limited and imbalanced. Our experiments on the ASCCD corpus show that comparing with shallow models such as one-hidden layer multi-perception (MLP) and support vector machine(SVM), deep models improve Mandarin tone recognition significantly. Among the deep models, DMNs can get better performance comparing with other deep neural networks based on sigmoid units or rectified linear units(ReLU).
Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM) is a widely used building-block in deep neural networks. However, RBM is an unsupervised model which can not exploit the rich supervised information of data. Therefore, we consider combining the descriptive (generative) ability of RBM with the discriminative ability of supervised subspace models, i.e., Fisher linear discriminant analysis (FDA), marginal Fisher analysis (MFA), and heat kernel MFA (hkMFA). Specifically, the hidden layer of RBM is regularized by the supervised subspace criteria, and the joint learning model can then be efficiently optimized by gradient descent and graph construction (used to define the scatter matrix in the subspace models) on mini-batch data. Compared with the traditional subspace models (FDA, MFA, hkMFA), the proposed hybrid models are essentially nonlinear and can be optimized by gradient descent instead of eigenvalue decomposition. More importantly, traditional subspace models can only reduce the dimensionality (because of linear transformation), while the proposed models can also increase the dimensionality for better class discrimination. Experiments on three databases demonstrate that the proposed hybrid models outperform both RBM and their counterpart subspace models (FDA, MFA, hkMFA) consistently.
UAV can work in places that are dangerous, or not easy to reach for humans. However, due to active control and operating difficulties, it is still a challenge to develop fully autonomous flight in complex environments. This paper applies a novel heuristic dynamic programming for the UAV heading optimal tracking controller design, using kernel-based heuristic dynamic programming (KHDP). Kernel-based HDP is developed by integrating kernel methods and approximately linear dependence (ALD) analysis with the critic learning of HDP algorithm. Compared with conventional HDP where neural networks are widely used and their features were manually designed, the proposed algorithm can obtain better generalization capability and learning efficiency through applying the sparse kernel machine into the critic learning process of HDP algorithm. Simulation and experimental results of UAV heading optimal tracking control problems demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed kernel-based HDP algorithm.
The paper is a feasibility analysis of using the recently introduced by one of the authors spiking neural networks architecture NeuCube for modelling and recognition of complex EEG spatio-temporal data related to both physical and intentional (imagined) movements. The preliminary experiments reported in the paper suggest that NeuCube is much more efficient for the task than standard machine learning techniques, resulting in high recognition accuracy, a better adaptability to new data, a better interpretation of the models, leading to a better understanding of the brain data and the processes that generated it.
In this paper, we develop a data-driven iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm to learn offline the approximate optimal control of unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems. We do not use a model network to identify the unknown system, but utilize the available offline data to learn the approximate optimal control directly. First, the data-driven iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm is presented with a convergence analysis. Then, the error bounds for this algorithm are provided considering the approximation errors of function approximation structures. To implement the developed algorithm, two neural networks are used to approximate the state-action value function and the control policy. Finally, two simulation examples are given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the developed algorithm.
Kalman filter is an efficient way to estimate the parameters of the value function in reinforcement learning. In order to solve Markov Decision Process (MDP) problems in both continuous state and action space, a new online reinforcement learning algorithm using Kalman filter technique, which is called Kalman filter-based actor-critic (KAC) learning is proposed in this paper. To implement the KAC algorithm, Cerebellar Model Articulation Controller (CMAC) neural networks are used to approximate the value function and the policy function respectively. Kalman filter is used to estimate the weights of the critic network. Two benchmark problems, namely the cart-pole balancing problem and the acrobot swing-up problem are provided to verify the effectiveness of the KAC approach. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed KAC algorithm is more efficient than other similar algorithms.
This paper provides an adaptive event-triggered method using adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) for the nonlinear continuous-time system. Comparing to the traditional method with fixed sampling period, the event-triggered method samples the state only when an event is triggered and therefore the computational cost is reduced. We demonstrate the theoretical analysis on the stability of the event-triggered method, and integrate it with the ADP approach. The system dynamics are assumed unknown. The corresponding ADP algorithm is given and the neural network techniques are applied to implement this method. The simulation results verify the theoretical analysis and justify the efficiency of the proposed event-triggered technique using the ADP approach.
Memory is a fundamental component in human brain and plays very important roles for all mental processes. The analysis of memory systems through cognitive architectures can be performed at the computational, or functional level, on the basis of empirical data. In this paper we discuss memory systems in the extended Consciousness and Memory Model (CAM) The knowledge representations used in CAM for working memory, semantic memory, episodic memory and procedural memory are introduced. It will be explained how, in CAM, all of these knowledge types are represented in dynamic decription logic (DDL), a formal logic with the capability for description and reasoning regarding dynamic application domains characterized by actions.
Multi-Agent Systems (MAS) offer a conceptual approach to include multi-actor decision making into models of land use change. Through the simulation based on the MAS, this paper tries to show the application of MAS in the micro scale LUCC, and reveal the transformation mechanism of difference scale. This paper starts with a description of the context of MAS research. Then, it adopts the Nested Spatial Choice (NSC) method to construct the multi-scale LUCC decision-making model. And a case study for Mengcha village, Mizhi County, Shaanxi Province is reported. Finally, the potentials and drawbacks of the following approach is discussed and concluded. From our design and implementation of the MAS in multi-scale model, a number of observations and conclusions can be drawn on the implementation and future research directions. (1) The use of the LUCC decision-making and multi-scale transformation framework provides, according to us, a more realistic modeling of multi-scale decision making process. (2) By using continuous function, rather than discrete function, to construct the decision-making of the households is more realistic to reflect the effect. (3) In this paper, attempts have been made to give a quantitative analysis to research the household interaction. And it provides the premise and foundation for researching the communication and learning among the households. (4) The scale transformation architecture constructed in this paper helps to accumulate theory and experience for the interaction research between the micro land use decision-making and the macro land use landscape pattern. Our future research work will focus on: (1) how to rational use risk aversion principle, and put the rule on rotation between household parcels into model. (2) Exploring the methods aiming at researching the household decision-making over a long period, it allows us to find the bridge between the long-term LUCC data and the short-term household decision-making. (3) Researching the quantitative method and model, especially the scenario analysis model which may reflect the interaction among different household types.
In this paper, the adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) approach is utilized to design a neural-network-based optimal controller for a class of unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems with quadratic cost function. To begin with, a neural network identifier is constructed to learn the unknown dynamic system with stability proof. Then, the iterative ADP algorithm is developed to handle the nonlinear optimal control problem with convergence analysis. Moreover, the single network dual heuristic dynamic programming (SN-DHP) technique, which eliminates the use of action network, is introduced to implement the iterative ADP algorithm. Finally, two simulation examples are included to illustrate the effectiveness of the present approach. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Tree frogs are able to climb or even jump on leaves and branches using their toe pads adhering to and detaching from surfaces, but have to be in the face of the risk of falling down due to fatigue or a slip. While falling down from a great height, air-righting response was observed, which prevents tree frogs from injury caused by back hitting the ground, however the mechanism underlying is unknown. Using a high-speed camera with a plane mirror, we captured the body and limb kinematics of falling tree frogs as they performed rapid air-righting response in three-dimension. The kinematics were then characterized into three stages and substituted into a mathematical multi-body model to simulate the air-righting dynamics caused by the kinematics. The results show that a head-down tree frog performs rapid air-righting with specific series of actions in hindlimb motion, which generates sufficient local angular momentum for the frog to rotate its body upright and keep the total moment of momentum conserved. The applications of these results to small landing robots and multi-segment spacecraft are anticipated.
The utilization of biomimicry of bacterial foraging strategy was considered to develop an adaptive control strategy for mobile robot, and a bacterial foraging approach was proposed for robot path planning. In the proposed model, robot that mimics the behavior of bacteria is able to determine an optimal collision-free path between a start and a target point in the environment surrounded by obstacles. In the simulation, two test scenarios of static environment with different number obstacles were adopted to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. Simulation results show that the robot which reflects the bacterial foraging behavior can adapt to complex environments in the planned trajectories with both satisfactory accuracy and stability.
Urban construction land suitability evaluation (UCLSE) is a complex system engineering and the basis for rational use of the limited urban land resources in China. It has an important practical value on urban construction land use planning and management from the angle of methodology. As a widely used technique, traditional multi-criteria evaluation based on GIS (MCE-GIS), is not suitable for UCLSE. This study develops an improved MCE-GIS method which could be more suitable for UCLSE based on urban complex ecological system theory and the summary of the shortcomings of traditional MCE-GIS. The improvements include three aspects: a composite evaluation index system rather than natural indexes alone, an index weight calculated by using fuzzy Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) method rather than the common AHP method, and the integrated overlay rule, which includes selecting the minimum value, weighted linear combination (WLC) and simple summation. The main advantage of this improved technique is that it can make UCLSE more comprehensive, more operational and more reasonable. It can provide a scientific basis for decision making in the planning and management of urban construction land use. The improved MCE-GIS system has been adopted in the New Hefei City, Anhui Province, China. Based on the results of UCLSE in New Hefei, three functional areas including construction-appropriate areas, construction-restricted areas and construction-forbidden areas could be worked out, in which 36.90% of the total study area could be developed as urban construction land and the remaining 63.10% should be protected as reserves land or as ecological land. Furthermore, the results can provide scientific decision support for spatial planning and eco-environment protection in New Hefei.
An empirical model that predicts the AU index, a measure of the Earth's east electrojet, derived from magnetometers in the Northern Hemisphere, is introduced together with an improved AL model which, combined with the AU model, produces an AE model. All models are based on solar wind and interplanetary magnetic field parameters and the solar F-10.7 index for the years 1995 to 2001. The linear correlation coefficient (LC) between the 10min averaged AU index and the model is 0.846 for the years 1995-2001. The LC for the updated AL model is 0.846, and using AE=AU-AL, the LC for the AE model is 0.888. The better LC of the AE model over AU and AL models is because AU and AL are better correlated than their errors. The models show that (1) solar ultraviolet intensity plays a significant role in auroral activity by changing the ionospheric conductivity and scale height. Increasing solar ultraviolet intensity increases the eastward electrojet as measured by AU but decreases the westward electrojet as measured by AL; (2) solar wind dynamic pressure also affects the auroral electrojet indices, although they are much more strongly dependent on the solar wind velocity and the interplanetary magnetic field; (3) AU and AL behave differently during geomagnetic storm main phases: AU, unlike AL, can drop to a small value during storms; (4) the longer averaged auroral electrojets indices can be predicted well but shorter timescale variations are less predictable.
The dynamic analysis of a continuous-time multi-agent swarm model with nonlinear profiles is investigated in this paper. It is shown that, under mild conditions, all agents in a swarm can reach cohesion within a finite time, where the upper bounds of the cohesion are derived in terms of the parameters of the swarm model. The results are then generalized by considering stochastic noise and switching between nonlinear profiles. Furthermore, swarm models with limited sensing range inducing changing communication topologies and unbounded repulsive interactions between agents are studied by switching system and nonsmooth analysis. Here, the sensing range of each agent is limited and the possibility of collision among nearby agents is high. Finally, simulation results are presented to demonstrate the validity of the theoretical analysis. (C) 2013 AIP Publishing LLC.
Face verification is the task of determining whether two given face images represent the same person or not. It is a very challenging task, as the face images, captured in the uncontrolled environments, may have large variations in illumination, expression, pose, background, etc. The crucial problem is how to compute the similarity of two face images. Metric learning has provided a viable solution to this problem. Until now, many metric learning algorithms have been propos'ed, but they are usually limited to learning a linear transformation In this paper, we propose a nonlinear metric learning method, which learns an explicit mapping from the original space to an optimal subspace using deep Independent Subspace Analysis (ISA) network. Compared to the linear or kernel based metric learning methods, the proposed deep ISA network is a deep and local learning architecture, and therefore exhibits more powerful ability to learn the nature of highly variable dataset. We evaluate our method on the Labeled Faces in the Wild dataset, and results show superior performance over some state-of-the-art methods.
In this paper, we propose a random sleep algorithm for a network to cooperatively find a point within the intersection of some convex sets, each of which is known only to a particular node. At each step, each node first chooses to project its own set or not at random by a Bernoulli decision independently. When a node has chosen to project its set, we assume that it can detect only the projection direction rather than the exact projection point, based on which the node obtains an estimate for the projection point. Then the agents update their states by averaging the estimates with their neighbors. Under directed and time-varying communication graph, sufficient and/or necessary stepsize conditions are presented for the considered algorithm converging to a consensus within the intersection set. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper is concerned with decentralized tracking-type games for large population multi-agent systems with mean-field coupling. The individual dynamics are described by stochastic discrete-time auto-regressive models with exogenous inputs (ARX models), and coupled by terms of the unknown population state average (PSA) with unknown coupling strength. A two-level decentralized adaptive control law is designed. On the high level, the PSA is estimated based on the Nash certainty equivalence (NCE) principle. On the low level, the coupling strength is identified based on decentralized least squares algorithms and the estimate of the PSA. The decentralized control law is constructed by combining the NCE principle and Certainty equivalence (CE) principle. By probability limit theory, under mild conditions, it is shown that: (a) the closed-loop system is stable almost surely; (b) as the number of agents increases to infinity, the estimates of both the PSA and the coupling strength are asymptotically strongly consistent and the decentralized control law is an almost sure asymptotic Nash-equilibrium.
The modulation transfer function (MTF) is one of the essential criteria of space optical camera. However, the traditional measurement methods of MTF are limited by precise equipment and test site. In this paper, a novel method is proposed to estimate the MTF of space optical camera via BP neural networks and Markov model. Utilizing this method, the MTF of space optical camera can be estimated only from the images taken by the camera without additional measurement equipment. The principle is to use the information extracted from known MTF images to train a BP artificial neural networks (ANN), and then use the BP ANN to estimate the MTF of space optical camera from remote images. In the meanwhile, the Markov model is used to correct the results estimated by ANN. The experiment results show that the MTF estimation average relative error at Nyquist frequency can further narrow to 5% via BP neural networks and Markov model, compared with 9% using only BP ANN. Crown Copyright (C) 2013 Published by Elsevier Ltd. on behalf of The Franklin Institute All rights reserved.
This paper develops an online algorithm based on policy iteration for optimal control with infinite horizon cost for continuous-time nonlinear systems. In the present method, a discounted value function is employed, which is considered to be a more general case for optimal control problems. Meanwhile, without knowledge of the internal system dynamics, the algorithm can converge uniformly online to the optimal control, which is the solution of the modified Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. By means of two neural networks, the algorithm is able to find suitable approximations of both the optimal control and the optimal cost. The uniform convergence to the optimal control is shown, guaranteeing the stability of the nonlinear system. A simulation example is provided to illustrate the effectiveness and applicability of the present approach.
In this paper, a new dual iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is developed to solve optimal control problems for a class of nonlinear systems with time-delays in state and control variables. The idea is to use the dynamic programming theory to solve the expressions of the optimal performance index function and control. Then, the dual iterative ADP algorithm is introduced to obtain the optimal solutions iteratively, where in each iteration, the performance index function and the system states are both updated. Convergence analysis is presented to prove the performance index function to reach the optimum by the proposed method. Neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function and compute the optimal control policy, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the dual iterative ADP algorithm. Simulation examples are given to demonstrate the validity of the proposed optimal control scheme.
The operation of RFID systems often involves a situation in which multiple readers physically located near one another may interfere with one another's operation. Such reader collision must be minimized to avoid the faulty or miss reads. This paper, therefore, aims to use a successful swarm intelligence technique called artificial bee colony (ABC) algorithm to minimize both the reader-to-reader interference and total system transaction time in RFID reader networks. As the RFID network scheduling model formulated in this work is a discrete problem, a binary version of artificial bee colony (BABC) algorithm is proposed in this study. Unlike the original ABC algorithm, the proposed BABC represents a food source as a discrete binary variable and applies discrete operators to change the foraging trajectories of the employed bees, onlookers and scouts in the probability that a coordinate will take on a zero or one value. Numerical results for four test cases with different scales, which ranging from 10 to 200 readers, have been presented to demonstrate the performance of the proposed methodology.
The goal of the robot path planning problem is to determine an optimal collision-free path for a mobile robot between a start and a target point in an environment surrounded by obstacles. Optimal collision-free trajectory planning for mobile robot is always a major issue in robotics due to the necessity for the robots' course of movement. In recent years, as the emergence of another member of the swarm intelligence family bacterial foraging optimization (BFO), the bacterial foraging strategy has attracted a great deal of interests. In this work, the path planning problem is approached by the mobile robot that mimics the foraging strategy of BFO algorithm. The objective is to minimize the path length and the number of turns without colliding with an obstacle. In the simulation studies, two test scenarios of static environment with different obstacle distribution are adopted to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. Simulation results show that our method is able to generate a collision-free path in complex environment.
Fingerprint classification is still a challenging problem due to large intra-class variability, small inter-class variability and the presence of noise. To deal with these difficulties, we propose a regularized orientation diffusion model for fingerprint orientation extraction and a hierarchical classifier for fingerprint classification in this paper. The proposed classification algorithm is composed of five cascading stages. The first stage rapidly distinguishes a majority of Arch by using complex filter responses. The second stage distinguishes a majority of Whorl by using core points and ridge line flow classifier. In the third stage, K-NN classifier finds the top two categories by using orientation field and complex filter responses. In the fourth stage, ridge line flow classifier is used to distinguish Loop from other classes except Whorl. SVM is adopted to make the final classification in the last stage. The regularized orientation diffusion model has been evaluated on a web-based automated evaluation system FVC-onGoing, and a promising result is obtained. The classification method has been evaluated on the NIST SD 4. It achieved a classification accuracy of 95.9% for five-class classification and 97.2% for four-class classification without rejection. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this study, an online adaptive optimal control scheme is developed for solving the infinite-horizon optimal control problem of uncertain non-linear continuous-time systems with the control policy having saturation constraints. A novel identifier-critic architecture is presented to approximate the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation using two neural networks (NNs): an identifier NN is used to estimate the uncertain system dynamics and a critic NN is utilised to derive the optimal control instead of typical action-critic dual networks employed in reinforcement learning. Based on the developed architecture, the identifier NN and the critic NN are tuned simultaneously. Meanwhile, unlike initial stabilising control indispensable in policy iteration, there is no special requirement imposed on the initial control. Moreover, by using Lyapunov's direct method, the weights of the identifier NN and the critic NN are guaranteed to be uniformly ultimately bounded, while keeping the closed-loop system stable. Finally, an example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the present approach.
Chemical composition, grain size, and processing conditions such as temperature and strain rate have important influence on superplasticity of NiAl alloys, which would allow the optimization of these parameters in order to achieve the desired combination of properties. In this work, the optimal superplastic deformation conditions of NiAl alloys were studied by using artificial neural networks (ANN). The standard multilayer feedforward networks were trained and tested using comprehensive datasets from previous experimentally works on the as-extruded NiAl, NiAl-25Cr, NiAl-20Fe-Y(Ce), NiAl-30Fe-Y, NiAl-9Mo, NiAl-P alloys. Different effects are modeled, including the influence of the alloying elements on the superplastic, and the influence of deformation temperature, strain rate and grain size on the elongations during the superplastic tensile tests. The artificial neural network models are combined with computer programmers for optimization of the inputs in order to achieve desirable combination of outputs. Good performances of the neural networks are achieved. Results of this research propose a range of strain rate and temperature within which the NiAl alloy possesses superplasticity with larger elongations, although the deformation temperature and strain rate of superplastic alloys alternately influence each other within the range. These models are convenient and powerful tools for practical applications in superplastic prediction in NiAl alloys.
The brainmap project aims tomap out the neuron connections of the human brain. Even with all of the wirings mapped out, the global and physical understandings of the function and behavior are still challenging. Hopfield quantified the learning andmemory process of symmetrically connected neural networks globally through equilibrium energy. The energy basins of attractions represent memories, and the memory retrieval dynamics is determined by the energy gradient. However, the realistic neural networks are asymmetrically connected, and oscillations cannot emerge from symmetric neural networks. Here, we developed a nonequilibrium landscape- flux theory for realistic asymmetrically connected neural networks. We uncovered the underlying potential landscape and the associated Lyapunov function for quantifying the global stability and function. We found the dynamics and oscillations in human brains responsible for cognitive processes and physiological rhythm regulations are determined not only by the landscape gradient but also by the flux. We found that the flux is closely related to the degrees of the asymmetric connections in neural networks and is the origin of the neural oscillations. The neural oscillation landscape shows a closed- ring attractor topology. The landscape gradient attracts the network down to the ring. The flux is responsible for coherent oscillations on the ring. We suggest the flux may provide the driving force for associations among memories. We applied our theory to rapid- eye movement sleep cycle. We identified the key regulation factors for function through global sensitivity analysis of landscape topography against wirings, which are in good agreements with experiments.
Background: Stress responses have been studied extensively in animal models, but effects of major life stress on the human brain remain poorly understood. The aim of this study was to determine whether survivors of a major earthquake, who were presumed to have experienced extreme emotional stress during the disaster, demonstrate differences in brain anatomy relative to individuals who have not experienced such stressors. Methods: Healthy survivors living in an area devastated by a major earthquake and matched healthy controls underwent 3-dimentional high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Survivors were scanned 13-25 days after the earthquake; controls had undergone MRI for other studies not long before the earthquake. We used optimized voxel-based morphometry analysis to identify regional differences of grey matter volume between the survivors and controls. Results: We included 44 survivors (17 female, mean age 37 [standard deviation (SD) 10.6] yr) and 38 controls (14 female, mean age 35.3 [SD 11.2] yr) in our analysis. Compared with controls, the survivors showed significantly lower grey matter volume in the bilateral insula, hippocampus, left caudate and putamen, and greater grey matter volume in the bilateral orbitofrontal cortex and the parietal lobe (all p < 0.05, corrected for multiple comparison). Limitations: Differences in the variance of survivor and control data could impact study findings. Conclusion: Acute anatomic alterations could be observed in earthquake survivors in brain regions where functional alterations after stress have been described. Anatomic changes in the present study were observed earlier than previously reported and were seen in prefrontal-limbic, parietal and striatal brain systems. Together with the results of previous functional imaging studies, our observations suggest a complex pattern of human brain response to major life stress affecting brain systems that modulate and respond to heightened affective arousal.
Remote sensing technology is the important tool of digital earth, it can facilitate nutrient management in sustainable cropping systems. In the study, two types of radial basis function (RBF) neural network approaches, the standard radial basis function (SRBF) neural networks and the modified type of RBF, generalized regression neural networks (GRNN), were investigated in estimating the nitrogen concentrations of oilseed rape canopy using vegetation indices (VIs) and hyperspectral reflectance. Comparison analyses were performed to the spectral variables and the approaches. The Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and determination coefficients (R-2) were used to assess their predictability of nitrogen concentrations. For all spectral variables (VIs and hyperspectral reflectance), the GRNN method produced more accurate estimates of nitrogen concentrations than did the SRBF method at all ranges of nitrogen concentrations, and the better agreements between the measured and the predicted nitrogen concentration were obtained with the GRNN method. This indicated that the GRNN method is prior to the SRBF method in estimation of nitrogen concentrations. Among the VIs, the Modified Chlorophyll Absorption in Reflectance Index (MCARI), MCARI(1510), and Transformed Chlorophyll Absorption in Reflectance Index are better than the others in estimating oilseed rape canopy nitrogen concentrations. Compared to the results from VIs, the hyperspectral reflectance data also gave an acceptable estimation. The study showed that nitrogen concentrations of oilseed rape canopy could be monitored using remotely sensed data and the RBF method, especially the GRNN method, is a useful explorative tool for oilseed rape nitrogen concentration monitoring when applied on hyperspectral data.
LEO satellite networks, with moderate propagation delay and low terminal power requirement, are considered as a promising solution to providing global seamless access services for ubiquitous computing. In order to satisfy the requirement of accessing computing resource for users, end-to-end delays should be bounded for a continual and reliable connectivity. But given dynamic topology and non-uniform distribution of terrestrial users, end-to-end delays within LEO satellite networks are liable to fluctuate. Hence, to examine the delay constraint, an analytical model based on a tandem queue is established under a hot-spot traffic pattern, which is unfavorable for bounded delays. The departure interval moments of a target flow are calculated and fitted for the next link as input parameters, from which queuing delays under cross flows are iteratively obtained. The analytical results show that this model is able to depict the influence by the traffic pattern with satisfying accuracy, which is valuable for the design of routing schemes in satellite networks.
Estimation of solar radiation from sunshine duration offers an important alternative in the absence of measured solar radiation. However, due to the dynamic nature of atmosphere, accurate estimation of daily solar radiation has been being a challenging task. This paper presents an application of Support vector machine (SVM) to estimation of daily solar radiation using sunshine duration. Seven SVM models using different input attributes and five empirical sunshine-based models are evaluated using meteorological data at three stations in Liaoning province in China. All the SVM models give good performances and significantly outperform the empirical models. The newly developed model, SVM1 using sunshine ratio as input attribute, is preferred due to its greater accuracy and simple input attribute. It performs better in winter, while highest root mean square error and relative root mean square error are obtained in summer. The season-dependent SVM model is superior to the fixed model in estimation of daily solar radiation for winter, while consideration of seasonal variation of the data sets cannot improve the results for spring, summer and autumn. Moreover, daily solar radiation could be well estimated by SVM1 using the data from nearby stations. The results indicate that the SVM method would be a promising alternative over the traditional approaches for estimation of daily solar radiation. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Vision-based road detection is an important research topic in different areas of computer vision such as the autonomous navigation of mobile robots. In outdoor unstructured environments such as villages and deserts, the roads are usually not well-paved and have variant colors or texture distributions. Traditional region- or edge-based approaches, however, are effective only in specific environments, and most of them have weak adaptability to varying road types and appearances. In this paper we describe a novel top-down based hybrid algorithm which properly combines both region and edge cues from the images. The main difference between our proposed algorithm and previous ones is that, before road detection, an off-line scene classifier is efficiently learned by both low- and high-level image cues to predict the unstructured road model. This scene classification can be considered a decision process which guides the selection of the optimal solution from region- or edge-based approaches to detect the road. Moreover, a temporal smoothing mechanism is incorporated, which further makes both model prediction and region classification more stable. Experimental results demonstrate that compared with traditional region- and edge-based algorithms, our algorithm is more robust in detecting the road areas with diverse road types and varying appearances in unstructured conditions.
Wavelet regression (WR) models are used commonly for hydrologic time series forecasting, but they could not consider uncertainty evaluation. In this paper the AM-MCMC (adaptive Metropolis-Markov chain Monte Carlo) algorithm was employed to wavelet regressive modeling processes, and a model called AM-MCMC-WR was proposed for hydrologic time series forecasting. The AM-MCMC algorithm is used to estimate parameters' uncertainty in WR model, based on which probabilistic forecasting of hydrologic time series can be done. Results of two runoff data at the Huaihe River watershed indicate the identical performances of AM-MCMC-WR and WR models in gaining optimal forecasting result, but they perform better than linear regression models. Differing from the WR model, probabilistic forecasting results can be gained by the proposed model, and uncertainty can be described using proper credible interval. In summary, parameters in WR models generally follow normal probability distribution; series' correlation characters determine the optimal parameters values, and further determine the uncertain degrees and sensitivities of parameters; more uncertain parameters would lead to more uncertain forecasting results and hard predictability of hydrologic time series.
By using the hierarchical identification principle, based on the conventional gradient search, two neural subsystems are developed and investigated for the online solution of the well-known Lyapunov matrix equation. Theoretical analysis shows that, by using any monotonically-increasing odd activation function, the gradient-based neural networks (GNN) can solve the Lyapunov equation exactly and efficiently. Computer simulation results confirm that the solution of the presented GNN models could globally converge to the solution of the Lyapunov matrix equation. Moreover, when using the power-sigmoid activation functions, the GNN models have superior convergence when compared to linear models. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper considers the average consensus problem for multi-agent systems with continuous-time first-order dynamics. Logarithmic quantization is considered in the communication channels, and continuous-time and sampled-data-based protocols are proposed. For the continuous-time protocol, we give an explicit upper bound of the consensus error in terms of the initial states, the quantization density and the parameters of the network graph. It is shown that in contrast with the case with uniform quantization, the consensus error in the logarithmic quantization case is always uniformly bounded, independent of the quantization density, and the beta-asymptotic average consensus is ensured under the proposed protocol, i.e. the asymptotic consensus error converges to zero as the sector bound beta of the logarithmic quantizer approaches zero. For the sampled-data-based protocol, we give sufficient conditions on the sampling interval to ensure the beta-asymptotic average consensus. Numerical examples are given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the protocols. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Distributed adaptive tracking-type games are investigated for a class of coupled stochastic linear multi-agent systems with uncertainties of unknown structure parameters, external stochastic disturbances, unmodeled dynamics, and unknown agents' interactions. The control goal is to make the states of all the agents converge to a desired function of the population state average (PSA). Due to the fact that only local information is available for each agent, the control is distributed. For the time-invariant parameter case, the extended least-squares algorithm, Nash certainty equivalence (NCE) principle, and certainty equivalence (CE) principle are used to estimate the unknown parameters and the PSA term, and to design adaptive control, respectively. Under some mild conditions, it is shown that the closed-loop system is almost surely uniformly stable with respect to the population number N; the estimate for the PSA term is strongly consistent; the adaptive control is almost surely an asymptotic Nash equilibrium. When the dynamics of each agent contains time-varying parameters and unmodeled dynamics, the projected least mean square (LMS) algorithm, NCE principle, and CE principle are adopted to estimate the unknown time-varying parameters, and the unknown PSA term, and to design robust adaptive control, respectively. In addition to stability of the closed-loop system and consistency of the PSA estimate, the control law is shown to be robust Nash equilibrium with respect to the unmodeled dynamics, the variation of the unknown parameters, and the external disturbances. Two numerical examples are given to illustrate the methods and results of this paper.
Hemorrhage within the brain space (HWBS) involves the brain parenchyma and ventricle systems, and is associated with high morbidity and mortality. Computed tomography (CT) head scans are the recommended modality for diagnosis and treatment for HWBS. However, HWBS detection may be difficult when the hemorrhage is inconspicuous, while quantification is hard as hemorrhage can have very variable intensity that overlaps with normal brain tissue. An algorithm is proposed to detect and quantify HWBS.
Facing such issues as demand uncertainty and in- and cross-channel competition, managers of today's retail chains are keen to find optimal strategies that help their firms to adapt to the increasingly competitive business environment. To help retail managers to address their challenges, we propose in this paper an agent-based retail model (ARM), grounded in complex adaptive systems, which comprises three types of agents, namely suppliers, retailers, and consumers. We derive the agents' optimal behaviours in response to competition by evaluating the evolutionary behaviour of the ARM using optimisation methods and genetic algorithm. We find that consumers' ability to collect pricing information has a significant effect on the degree of competition in retail chains. In addition, we find that the everyday low price (EDLP) strategy emerges from the evolutionary behaviour of the ARM as the dominant pricing strategy in multi-product retail chains. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper studies second-order consensus in multi-agent systems with sampled position and velocity data. A distributed linear consensus protocol with second-order dynamics is first designed, where both sampled position and velocity data are utilized. A necessary and sufficient condition based on the sampling period, the coupling gains, and the spectra of the Laplacian matrix, is established for reaching consensus of the system in this setting. It is found that second-order consensus in such a multi-agent system can be achieved by appropriately choosing the sampling period determined by a polynomial with order three. In particular, second-order consensus cannot be reached for a sufficiently large sampling period while it can be reached for a sufficiently small one under some conditions. Then, the coupling gains are carefully designed under the given network structure and the sampling period. Furthermore, the consensus regions are characterized for the spectra of the Laplacian matrix. On the other hand, second-order consensus in delayed undirected networks with sampled position and velocity data is then discussed. A necessary and sufficient condition is also given, by which appropriate sampling period can be chosen to achieve consensus in multi-agent systems. Finally, simulation examples are given to verify and illustrate the theoretical analysis.
Biologically inspired snake robots have been widely studied for their various motion patterns. Most research has focused on the design of a controller for a given motion pattern. However, relatively limited work appears to have been done on the design of a controller for self-adaptive locomotion. In this brief, we add sensory inputs to a control system in order to investigate collision avoidance in a snake robot using a neural controller based on central pattern generator. From an analysis of the steering mechanism during serpentine locomotion, we derive a mathematical model of the joint configuration and the steering angle. In a neural oscillator network, steering control can be achieved via the proposed amplitude modulation method by modulating the neural oscillation parameters. A head-navigated motion pattern is employed to allow the range sensors to accurately detect obstacles for collision avoidance. Through the head-navigated locomotion, the head of the snake robot can be controlled to keep the orientation the same as the motion direction. The proposed control method is experimentally verified by application to the SR-I snake robot.
A direct adaptive interval type-2 fuzzy neural network (IT2-FNN) controller is designed for the first time in hypersonic flight control. The generic hypersonic flight vehicle is a multi-input multi-output system whose longitudinal model is high-order, highly nonlinear, tight coupling and most of all includes big uncertainties. Interval type-2 fuzzy sets with Gaussian membership functions are used in antecedent and consequent parts of fuzzy rules. The IT2-FNN directly outputs elevator deflection and throttle setting which make the GHFV track the altitude command signal and meanwhile maintain its velocity. The parameter adaptive law of IT2-FNN is derived using backpropagation method. The deviation of the control signal from the nominal dynamic inversion control signal is used as the reference output signal of IT2-FNN. The tracking errors of velocity and altitude are used as inputs of IT2-FNN. Tracking differentiator is designed to form an arranged transition process (ATP) of the command signal as well as ATP's high-order derivatives. Nonlinear state observer is designed to get the approximations of velocity, altitude as well as their high-order derivatives. Simulation results validate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed controller especially under big uncertainties.
A novel supervised Actor-Critic (SAC) approach for adaptive cruise control (ACC) problem is proposed in this paper. The key elements required by the SAC algorithm namely Actor and Critic, are approximated by feed-forward neural networks respectively. The output of Actor and the state are input to Critic to approximate the performance index function. A Lyapunov stability analysis approach has been presented to prove the uniformly ultimate bounded property of the estimation errors of the neural networks. Moreover, we use the supervisory controller to pre-train Actor to achieve a basic control policy, which can improve the training convergence and success rate. We apply this method to learn an approximate optimal control policy for the ACC problem. Experimental results in several driving scenarios demonstrate that the SAC algorithm performs well, so it is feasible and effective for the ACC problem.
A novel multi-objective adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) method is constructed to obtain the optimal controller of a class of nonlinear time-delay systems in this paper. Using the weighted sum technology, the original multi-objective optimal control problem is transformed to the single one. An ADP method is established for nonlinear time-delay systems to solve the optimal control problem. To demonstrate that the presented iterative performance index function sequence is convergent and the closed-loop system is asymptotically stable, the convergence analysis is also given. The neural networks are used to get the approximative control policy and the approximative performance index function, respectively. Two simulation examples are presented to illustrate the performance of the presented optimal control method.
The sky region in an image provides horizontal and background information for autonomous ground robots and is important for vision-based autonomous ground robot navigation. This paper proposes a sky region detection algorithm within a single image based on gradient information and energy function optimization. Unlike most existing methods, the proposed algorithm is applicable to both colour and greyscale images. Firstly, the gradient information of the image is obtained. Then, the optimal segmentation threshold in the gradient domain is calculated according to the energy function optimization and the preliminary sky region is estimated. Finally, a post-processing method is applied in order to refine the preliminary sky region detection result when no sky region appears in the image or when objects extrude from the ground. Experimental results have proven that the detection accuracy is greater than 95% in our test set with 1,000 images, while the processing time is about 150ms for an image with a resolution of 640x480 on a modern laptop using only a single core.
As an effective method that can provide the information about the influence of inputs on the variation of output, variance based sensitivity analysis is widely used to determine the structure of neural networks. In the past, the global sensitivity analysis method for the total effect has been used for the structure learning of neural networks and various growing and pruning algorithms have been developed. In this paper, we find that neuro-fuzzy networks have the characteristics of additive models in which the first order effect index of the influence can provide the same comprehensive information as the total effect index, thus we only need to analyze the first order effects of the inputs to their output layers. Based on this observation, many low-cost effective methods for the first order effect global sensitivity can be used in for developing self-organizing neuro-fuzzy networks. Specifically, Random Balance Designs is employed here for sensitivity analysis. In addition, we also introduce the concept of systemic fluctuation of neuro-fuzzy networks to determine whether adjustment is needed for a network. This concept helps us to build a new procedure about the leaning of self-organizing neuro-fuzzy networks and to accelerate its speed of convergence in learning and organizing. Examples of simulations have demonstrated that our proposed method performs better than other existing procedures for self-organizing neuro-fuzzy networks, especially in learning of the network structure. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We present a method to integrate case-based reasoning (CBR) with object-oriented image classification to classify SPOT images. Images were first segmented into discrete objects at multiple scales. CBR was then used to classify these objects by comparing their geometric shapes, spectral characteristics, and textural measurements with those of the past objects prepared from archived SPOT images and land use data. Once enough past objects were accumulated, this method was able to successfully classify image objects with promising results as demonstrated by a case study of aquaculture land use mapping in coastal areas of Guangdong province, China.
When objects undergo large pose change, illumination variation or partial occlusion, most existed visual tracking algorithms tend to drift away from targets and even fail in tracking them. To address this issue, in this study, the authors propose an online algorithm by combining multiple instance learning (MIL) and local sparse representation for tracking an object in a video system. The key idea in our method is to model the appearance of an object by local sparse codes that can be formed as training data for the MIL framework. First, local image patches of a target object are represented as sparse codes with an overcomplete dictionary, where the adaptive representation can be helpful in overcoming partial occlusion in object tracking. Then MIL learns the sparse codes by a classifier to discriminate the target from the background. Finally, results from the trained classifier are input into a particle filter framework to sequentially estimate the target state over time in visual tracking. In addition, to decrease the visual drift because of the accumulative errors when updating the dictionary and classifier, a two-step object tracking method combining a static MIL classifier with a dynamical MIL classifier is proposed. Experiments on some publicly available benchmarks of video sequences show that our proposed tracker is more robust and effective than others.
In this paper, a biped water running robot is developed by mimicking the water-running pattern of basilisk lizards. The dynamic mechanism of the robot was studied based on Watt-I planar linkages, and the movement trajectory of the double bar Assur Group was deduced to simulate the water-running foot trajectories of the basilisk lizard. A Central Pattern Generator (CPG)-based fuzzy control method was proposed to control the robot for realizing balance control and gait adjustment. The effectiveness of the proposed control method was verified on the prototype of a water running robot (weight: 320 g). When the biped robot is running on water, the average force generated by the propulsion mechanism is 1.3 N, and the robot body tilt angle is 5 degrees. The experiment results show that the propulsion mechanism is effective in realizing the basilisk lizards-like water running patterns, and the CPG-based fuzzy control method is effective in keeping the balance of the robot.
This paper focuses on the automatic generation of forward kinematics of a kind of modular reconfigurable robot. Based on the modularized division of robots and the communication between the host and the modules, a configuration recognition method is proposed. By using the graph theory, the method of topological analysis is proposed, and the assembly incidence matrix (AIM) and path matrix are derived. Subsequently, based on the results of topological analysis and the definition of module frames, the initial poses and twists of a robot are obtained. To deal with the multi-chain robots, the entries of the path matrix are employed to enable dyads to appear or not to appear in the kinematic equations. Then, the forward kinematics of the multi-chain robot is derived. An illustrative example and an experiment are presented. The results show that the method is valid and suitable for both single-open-chain robots and multi-chain robots.
Debris flows belong to sudden disasters which are difficult to forecast. Thus, a detailed and coherent hazard assessment seems a necessary step to prevent or relieve such disasters and mitigate the risk effectively. Previous researchers have proposed several methods, such as regression analysis, fuzzy mathematics, and artificial neural networks for debris-flow hazard assessment. However, these methods need further improvements to eliminate the high relativity existing in their results. The current study reported a similarity-based debris-flow hazard assessment model to determine hazard levels of debris flow in regions, with steps like determining hazard-level-type regions, selecting environmental factors and calculating the similarities between the assessment-pending regions and assessed hazard-level-type ones. This methodology was then employed to assess the regional debris hazard of Yunnan Province in China as a case study and was verified via comparison with field surveys. As the results indicate, the proposed similarity-based debris-flow risk assessment model is simple and efficient and can improve the comparability and reliability of the assessment to some degree.
Neural networks in vertebrates exhibit endogenous oscillations that have been associated with functions ranging from sensory processing to locomotion. It remains unclear whether oscillations may play a similar role in the insect brain. We describe a novel "whole brain" readout for Drosophila melanogaster using a simple multichannel recording preparation to study electrical activity across the brain of flies exposed to different sensory stimuli. We recorded local field potential (LFP) activity from >2,000 registered recording sites across the fly brain in >200 wild-type and transgenic animals to uncover specific LFP frequency bands that correlate with: 1) brain region; 2) sensory modality (olfactory, visual, or mechanosensory); and 3) activity in specific neural circuits. We found endogenous and stimulus-specific oscillations throughout the fly brain. Central (higher-order) brain regions exhibited sensory modality-specific increases in power within narrow frequency bands. Conversely, in sensory brain regions such as the optic or antennal lobes, LFP coherence, rather than power, best defined sensory responses across modalities. By transiently activating specific circuits via expression of TrpA1, we found that several circuits in the fly brain modulate LFP power and coherence across brain regions and frequency domains. However, activation of a neuromodulatory octopaminergic circuit specifically increased neuronal coherence in the optic lobes during visual stimulation while decreasing coherence in central brain regions. Our multichannel recording and brain registration approach provides an effective way to track activity simultaneously across the fly brain in vivo, allowing investigation of functional roles for oscillations in processing sensory stimuli and modulating behavior.
SUMMARYAs radio frequency identification (RFID) tags become more ubiquitously available, they will stay in dynamic environments where tags can freely enter or leave RFID readers' interrogation range. With such a dynamic tag population, there arises a problem of population monitoring, whose purpose is to identify the missing tags that have departed from the reading range and the new tags that have newly entered. This problem is a new problem which cannot be well solved by the conventional tag identification protocols. In this paper, we first show that this traditional approach is inefficient, because it collects all the tag IDs in each scan and ignores the ready-for-use knowledge of the tag population in a previous scan. To be more efficient, we present three protocols: (i) a baseline protocol that improves the traditional tag identification protocol by optimizing its length of random number used for collision detection; (ii) a novel one-phase protocol with easy labor to identify exactly the new tags and the missing tags by fully utilizing the knowledge of previous tag population; and (iii) a hybrid protocol that smartly combines the baseline protocol and the one-phase protocol. Its purpose is to deal with the situation that the knowledge of previous tag population is highly inconsistent with the current tag population. This hybrid protocol, as shown by our analysis, can improve the tag monitoring accuracy by 25%, and improve the time efficiency by 55.3%, as compared with a recent work (called two-phase protocol), which also identifies the population changes. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
This paper describes a novel Bacterial Foraging Optimization (BFO) approach to multi-objective optimization, called Multi-objective Bacterial Foraging Optimization (MBFO). The objectives in the Multi-objective Bacterial Foraging Optimization are maintained by a fitness survive mechanism. Bacteria with the smaller health values have the better chance to survive. Meanwhile, the main goal of multi-objective optimization problems is to obtain a superior non-dominated front which is closed to the true Pareto front. With identification of such features, the idea of integration between health sorting approach and pareto dominance mechanism are developed to search for Pareto-optimal set of problems. Moreover, strategy keeping a certain unfeasible border solutions based on a given probability is considered to improve the diversity of individuals. In addition, two different performance metrics: Diversity and Generational Distance are introduced as well to evaluate multi-objective optimization problems. Compared to two other multi-objective optimization evolutionary algorithms MOPSO and NSGA-II, simulation results show that in most cases, the proposed MBFO is able to find a much better spread of solutions and convergence to the true Pareto-optimal front faster. It suggests that MBFO is very promising in dealing with ordinary multi-objective optimization problems. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Using semi-tensor product (STP) of matrix, this paper investigates the fuzzy relation of multiple fuzzy and uses this to design coupled fuzzy control is designed. First of all, under the assumption that the universe of discourse is finite, a fuzzy logical variable can be expressed as a vector, which unifies the expression of elements, subsets, and fuzzy subsets of a universe of discourse. Then, the matrix expression of set mappings is naturally extended to fuzzy sets. Second, based on STP, logic-based matrix addition and product are proposed. These are particulary useful for the calculation of compounded fuzzy relations. Third, a dual fuzzy structure is introduced, which assures the finiteness of the universe of discourse, and is used for fuzzification and defuzzification. Finally, using the results obtained, a new technique is developed to design a coupled fuzzy controller for multi-input multi-output (MIMO) systems with coupled multiple fuzzy relations.
Time delayed coupling plays a crucial role in determining the system's dynamics. We here report that the time delay induces transition from the asynchronous state to the complete synchronization (CS) state in the repulsively coupled chaotic oscillators. In particular, by changing the coupling strength or time delay, various types of synchronous patterns, including CS, antiphase CS, antiphase synchronization (ANS), and phase synchronization, can be generated. In the transition regions between different synchronous patterns, bistable synchronous oscillators can be observed. Furthermore, we show that the time-delay-induced phase flip bifurcation is of key importance for the emergence of CS. All these findings may light on our understanding of neuronal synchronization and information processing in the brain. (C) 2013 AIP Publishing LLC.
Location information is useful for mobile phones. There exists a dilemma between the relatively high price of GPS devices and the dependence of location information acquisition on GPS for most phones in current stage. To tackle this problem, in this paper, we investigate the position inference of phones without GPS according to Bluetooth connectivity and positions of beacon phones. With the position of GPS-equipped phones as beacons and with the Bluetooth connections between neighbor phones as constraints, we formulate the problem as an optimization problem defined on the Bluetooth network. The solution to this optimization problem is not unique. Heuristic information is employed to improve the performance of the result in the feasible set. Recurrent neural networks are developed to solve the problem distributively in real time. The convergence of the neural network and the solution feasibility to the defined problem are both theoretically proven. The hardware implementation of the proposed neural network is also explored in this paper. Simulations and comparisons with different application backgrounds are considered. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
This paper studies the decentralized control of multiple redundant manipulators for the cooperative task execution problem. Different from existing work with assumptions that all manipulators are accessible to the command signal, we propose in this paper a novel strategy capable of solving the problem even though there exists some manipulators unable to access the command signal directly. The cooperative task execution problem can be formulated as a constrained quadratic programming problem. We start analysis by re-designing the control law proposed in (Li et al. Neurocomputing, 2012), which solves the optimization problem recursively. By replacing the command signal with estimations with neighbor information, the control law becomes to work in the partial command coverage situation. However, the stability and optimality of the new system are not necessarily the same as the original system. We then prove in theory that the system indeed also globally stabilizes to the optimal solution of the constrained quadratic optimization problem. Simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Interferon regulatory factor 8 (IRF8) plays a role in both innate and adaptive systems in mammals. In this study, the gene and promoter sequences of Japanese flounder, Paralichthys olivaceus, (Po) IRF8 were cloned, and its expression in response to polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly I:C) and lymphocystis disease virus (LCDV) challenges was studied in vivo. The PoIRF8 gene spans over 3.3 kb with a structure of 9 exon-8 intron and encodes 420 amino acids. The putative protein shows the highest sequence identity (69.5-89.0%) to fish IRF8 and possesses a DNA-binding domain (DBD), an IRF-association domain (IAD) and a nuclear localization signal (NLS) of vertebrate IRF8. Phylogenetic analysis classified PoIRF8 into the cluster of fish IRF8 within vertebrate IRF8 group of IRF4 subfamily. A number of transcription factor binding sites were identified in the 2348-bp 5' flanking region of PoIRF8 gene, including those of transcription factors for type I and type II interferon (IFN) inducible genes and genes regulating the development and function of lymphomyeloid cells in mammals. The PoIRF8 transcripts were expressed in all examined tissues of healthy flounders, with higher levels observed in the immune relevant tissues. They were up-regulated by both poly I:C and LCDV treatments in the spleen, head kidney, gills and muscle in an early phase of immune responses, with initiation and peak time points of induction prior to type I IFN and Mx. Relative to LCDV, the induction by poly I:C was quicker in all four tissues. These results indicate an involvement of PoIRF8 in the host's antiviral responses and a functional conservation of IRF8 between fish and mammals. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
There are signs that wireless sensor actuator networks can be used in time-sensitive industrial processes to reduce cable deployment and increase flexibility. This paper investigates the time-sensitive fault detector design in wireless sensor actuator networks subject to random packet delays and packet losses. The impacts of wireless packet delays and losses are modeled as external unknown disturbances and a memory block is introduced to deal with the packet losses and long delays. A frequency component estimation method is proved to estimate the frequency of these unknown disturbances. An eigenstructure optimization method is proposed to enhance the fault detector's sensitivity to the fault and the robustness against the delays and packet losses. The fault detection performance in a wireless building automation system is demonstrated by hybrid MATLAB/NS2 simulation. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
The main purpose of this paper is to present the use of multi-resource remote sensing data, an incomplete landslide inventory, GIS technique and logistic regression model for landslide susceptibility mapping related to the May 12, 2008 Wenchuan earthquake of China. Landslide location polygons were delineated from visual interpretation of aerial photographs, satellite images in high resolutions, and verified by selecting field investigations. Eight factors, including slope angle, slope aspect, elevation, distance from drainages, distance from roads, distance from main faults, seismic intensity and lithology were selected as controlling factors for earthquake-triggered landslide susceptibility mapping. Qualitative susceptibility analyses were carried out using the map overlaying techniques in GIS platform. The validation result showed a success rate of 82.751 % between the susceptibility probability index map and the location of the initial landslide inventory. The predictive rate of 86.930 % was obtained by comparing the additional landslide polygons and the landslide susceptibility probability index map. Both the success rate and the predictive rate show sufficient agreement between the landslide susceptibility map and the existing landslide data, and good predictive power for spatial prediction of the earthquake-triggered landslides.
Emulation of the sensation of touch through high-resolution electronic means could become important in future generations of robotics and human-machine interfaces. Here, we demonstrate that a nanowire light-emitting diode-based pressure sensor array can map two-dimensional distributions of strain with an unprecedented spatial resolution of 2.7 mu m, corresponding to a pixel density of 6,350 dpi. Each pixel is composed of a single n-ZnO nanowire/p-GaN light-emitting diode, the emission intensity of which depends on the local strain owing to the piezo-phototronic effect. A pressure map can be created by reading out, in parallel, the electroluminescent signal from all of the pixels with a time resolution of 90 ms. The device may represent a major step towards the digital imaging of mechanical signals by optical means, with potential applications in artificial skin, touchpad technology, personalized signatures, bio-imaging and optical microelectromechanical systems.
Although solar radiation is a crucial parameter in designing solar power devices and studying land surface processes, long-term and densely distributed observations of surface solar radiation are usually not available. This paper describes the development of a 50-year dataset of daily surface solar radiation at 716 China Meteorological Administration (CMA) stations. First, a physical model, without any local calibration, is applied to estimate the daily radiation at all 716 CMA routine stations. Then, an ANN-based (Artificial Neural Network) model is applied to extend radiation estimates to earlier periods at each of all 96 CMA radiation stations. The ANN-based model is trained with recent reliable radiation data and thus its estimate is more reliable than the physical model. Therefore, the ANN-based model is used to correct the physical model dynamically at a monthly scale. The correction generally improves the accuracy of the radiation dataset estimated by the physical model: the mean bias error (MBE) averaged over all the 96 radiation stations during 1994-2002 is reduced from 0.68 to -0.11 MJ m(-2) and the root mean square error (RMSE) from 2.01 to 1.80 MJ m(-2). The new radiation dataset shows superior performance over previous estimates by locally calibrated ngstrom-Prescott models. Based on the new radiation dataset, the annual mean daily solar radiation over China is 14.3 MJ m(-2). The maximal seasonal mean daily solar radiation occurs in the Tibetan Plateau during summer with a value of 27.1 MJ m(-2), whereas the minimal seasonal mean daily solar radiation occurs in the Sichuan Basin during winter with a value of 4.7 MJ m(-2).
One of the key challenges for neural tissue engineering is to exploit supporting materials with robust functionalities not only to govern cell-specific behaviors, but also to form functional neural network. The unique electrical and mechanical properties of graphene imply it as a promising candidate for neural interfaces, but little is known about the details of neural network formation on graphene as a scaffold material for tissue engineering. Therapeutic regenerative strategies aim to guide and enhance the intrinsic capacity of the neurons to reorganize by promoting plasticity mechanisms in a controllable manner. Here, we investigated the impact of graphene on the formation and performance in the assembly of neural networks in neural stem cell (NSC) culture. Using calcium imaging and electrophysiological recordings, we demonstrate the capabilities of graphene to support the growth of functional neural circuits, and improve neural performance and electrical signaling in the network. These results offer a better understanding of interactions between graphene and NSCs, also they clearly present the great potentials of graphene as neural interface in tissue engineering. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Non-delegatability is an interesting property of designated verifier signatures (DVS) as it technically makes a signer responsible for the signer's actions and protects the privacy of the signer. This property is critical for some financial scenarios when a user is required to do something by itself. As more financial applications are running in a mobile and ubiquitous computing environment, an efficient scheme with a non-delegatability property is desirable. This paper proposes such a scheme in an identity-based setting with detailed proofs. Technically, the scheme combines an identity-based Schnorr style signature and an identification method with an OR proof technique gluing the two parts. It is the second scheme secure in a strict model proposed by Huang et al. And it saves about half the communication and computation costs of the first one. (c) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The leader-following consensus of high-order multi-agent linear systems with bounded transmission channels is considered. Agents modelled as LTI dynamics exchange information according to a network which can be described as a graph with agents as its vertices and information transmission channels as its edges. The transmission channels are bounded. The objective is leader-following in the sense that the state of all agents should converge to that of the leader vehicle. Detailed analysis of the leader-following consensus under bounded transmission channels is investigated for both fixed and switching network topologies.
Locally linear embedding (LLE) is a recently developed dimension reduction technique. In this paper, we describe how we applied LLE to the stellar subclass classification. We found that LLE classifies the objects with different physical characteristics correctly. We then compared the performance of LLE with that of principal component analysis (PCA) in spectral classification, and found that LLE does better than PCA. We tested the robustness of LLE against the changing of signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs), and found that the performance of LLB is affected by two factors: changing of SNRs and the range of SNRs of the spectra data set. We also studied the variation of LLE parameters, and found that the experiment results are affected by the parameter variation, but not sensitive. Finally, using LLE, we located those objects misclassified by the Sloan Digital Sky Survey pipeline, and estimated its accuracy in classifying stellar subclasses.
According to the different selection principles of model inputs in the testing period of a time series forecast, two kinds of long-term forecast mechanisms, the "seeming" and "true" long-term (SLT and TLT) forecasts, for different hydro-meteorological time series signals predicting and their forecast performance variations with corresponding driving mechanisms are proposed and discussed for the first rime with this study. Daily precipitation and evaporation data of one station and river stage data of two stations are used as case studies, and six kinds of popular hybrid and pure models are used to compare both kinds of forecast performances. Results show that because of the forecast mechanism variations conventional SLT forecast models have abnomally overall high and similar performances. For meteorological signals, especially for precipitation signal, the signal features with larger numbers of zero value data and weak short-term periodicities, revealed by the Continuous Wavelet Transform (CWT) method, lead to the overall poor performances of different TLT forecast models, but make the Discrete Wavelet Transform (DWT) method significantly effective on SLT forecasts. With respect to hydrological river stage signals, the signal features with significant short-term periodicities and without interference of zero value data can finely reveal the significant advantage of DWT-NF hybrid model, combining DWT and Neuro-Fuzzy, on TLT forecasts, but weaken the advantages of DWT method and neural network models on SLT forecasts. since the TLT forecast has higher practical value but lower performance than the conventional SLT forecast, the DWT-NF hybrid model has been demonstrated as a better predictor than other hybrid and pure models for effectively improving the hydro-meteorological signal TLT forecast performance. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Aim: To investigate the different effects of heroin and milk in activating the corticostriatal system that plays a critical role in reward reinforcement learning.
We apply one of the lazy learning methods, the k-nearest neighbor (kNN) algorithm, to estimate the photometric redshifts of quasars based on various data sets from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), the UKIRT Infrared Deep Sky Survey (UKIDSS), and the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE; the SDSS sample, the SDSS-UKIDSS sample, the SDSS-WISE sample, and the SDSS-UKIDSS-WISE sample). The influence of the k value and different input patterns on the performance of kNN is discussed. kNN performs best when k is different with a special input pattern for a special data set. The best result belongs to the SDSS-UKIDSS-WISE sample. The experimental results generally show that the more information from more bands, the better performance of photometric redshift estimation with kNN. The results also demonstrate that kNN using multiband data can effectively solve the catastrophic failure of photometric redshift estimation, which is met by many machine learning methods. Compared with the performance of various other methods of estimating the photometric redshifts of quasars, kNN based on KD-Tree shows superiority, exhibiting the best accuracy.
In contrast with the existing approaches to exact bisimulation for fuzzy systems, we introduce a robust notion of behavioral distance to measure the behavioral similarity of nondeterministic fuzzy-transition systems which are a generalization of fuzzy automata. This behavioral distance provides a quantitative analogue of bisimilarity and is defined as the greatest fixed point of a suitable monotonic function. The behavioral distance has the important property that two systems are at zero distance if and only if they are bisimilar. Moreover, for any given threshold, we find that systems with behavioral distances bounded by the threshold are equivalent. In addition, we show that two system combinators-parallel composition and product-are nonexpansive with respect to our behavioral distance, which makes compositional verification possible. The theory developed here is applicable to the quantitative verification, approximate reduction, and reliability analysis of fuzzy-transition systems.
There is a function of dynamic mapping when processing non-linear complex data with Elman neural networks. Because Elman neural network inherits the feature of back-propagation neural network to some extent, it has many defects; for example, it is easy to fall into local minimum, the fixed learning rate, the uncertain number of hidden layer neuron and so on. It affects the processing accuracy. So we optimize the weights, thresholds and numbers of hidden layer neurons of Elman networks by genetic algorithm. It improves training speed and generalization ability of Elman neural networks to get the optimal algorithm model. It has been proved by instance analysis that new algorithm was superior to the traditional model in terms of convergence rate, predicted value error, number of trainings conducted successfully, etc. It indicates the effect of the new algorithm and deserves further popularization.
Increasing global warming has led to the incremental retreat of glaciers, which in turn affects the water supply of the rivers dependent on glacier melts. This is further affected by the increases in flooding that is attributable to heavy rains during the snowmelt season. An accurate estimation of streamflow is important for water resources planning and management. Therefore, this paper focuses on improving the streamflow forecast for Kaidu River Basin, situated at the north fringe of Yanqi basin on the south slope of the Tianshan Mountains in Xinjiang, China. The interannual and decadal scale oceanic-atmospheric oscillations, i.e.,Pacific decadal oscillation (PDO), North Atlantic oscillation (NAO), Atlantic multidecadal oscillation (AMO), and El Nino-southern oscillation (ENSO), are used to generate streamflow volumes for the peak season (April-October) and the water year, which is from October of the previous year to September of the current year for a period from 1955-2006. A data-driven model, least-square support vector machine (LSSVM), was developed that incorporated oceanic atmospheric oscillations to increase the streamflow lead time. Based on performance measures, predicted streamflow volumes are in agreement with the measured volumes. Sensitivity analyses, performed to evaluate the effect of individual and coupled oscillations, revealed a stronger presence of coupled PDO, NAO, and ENSO indices within the basin. The AMO index shows a pronounced effect when individually compared with the other oscillation modes. Additionally, model-forecasted streamflow is better than that for climatology. Overall, very good streamflow predictions are obtained using the SVM modeling approach. Furthermore, the LSSVM streamflow predictions outperform the predictions obtained from the most widely used feed-forward back-propagation models, artificial neural network, and multiple linear regression. The current paper contributes in improving the streamflow forecast lead time, and identified a coupled climate signal within the basin. The increased lead time can provide useful information to water managers in improving the planning and management of water resources within the Kaidu River Basin. (C) 2013 American Society of Civil Engineers.
Maintaining dynamical stability for humanoid robots to walk or run in even environments has so far been achieved. However, it will become a challenge work to keep balance under rough terrains, because the effective contact area (ECA) between the feet and the uneven environments is less than that on even ground. Thus some control schemes are additionally needed for robot to keep dynamical balance, which increases the complexity of control. In view of that, flexible force sensor array (FFSA) system is adopted under robot feet to detect the ECA in the case of stepping on rough terrains. Structure optimum, data acquisition, processing methods, etc., of the FFSA system are all elaborately provided in this paper. And the feasibility and validity of the FFSA system mounted in the robot foot system are experimentally tested on the humanoid robot platform BHR-2. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recent advancement in force/torque (FIT) sensor technologies have been powered by new measurement principles, novel structures of elastic elements (EEs), advanced manufacturing technologies, nonlinear signal processing and decoupling algorithms using artificial intelligence. The interlocked interaction of novel advances in these areas provide promising solutions improving the static and dynamic performances such as sensitivity, accuracy, compactness, economic efficiency, stiffness, and resonant frequency of F/T sensors.
Wireless body area network (WBAN) is an emerging short-range wireless communication network with sensor nodes located on, in or around the human body for healthcare, entertainment and ubiquitous computing. In WBANs, energy is severely constrained which is the prime consideration in the medium access control (MAC) protocol design. In this paper, we propose a novel MAC protocol named Energy-efficient Relay MAC with dynamic Power Control (ERPC-MAC) to save energy consumption. Without relying on the additional devices, ERPC-MAC employs relaying nodes to provide relay service for nodes which consume energy fast. Accordingly the superframe adjustment is performed and then the network topology can be smoothly switched from single-hop to multi-hop. Moreover, for further energy saving and reliability improvement, the dynamic power control is introduced to adjust the power level whenever a node transmits its packets to the coordinator or the relaying node. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first effort to integrate relay, topology adjustment and power control to improve the network performance in a WBAN. Comprehensive simulations are conducted to evaluate the performance. The results show that the ERPC-MAC is more superior to the existing standard and significantly prolongs the network lifetime.
This paper focuses on the modeling of undulation propulsion and a neural network (NN) yaw controller based on this model. First, because of the importance of the first link's oscillation in yaw control, a motion model of free swimming was built based on the Lagrangian function, and the coupled dynamic and kinematic functions were calculated based on the relation between the generalized force and the fluid force. Second, a neural network was trained through the data generated from this model to obtain a predictive yaw controller that could control the orientation by the different offsets of each link. Finally, simulations were conducted to demonstrate the performance of the controller. (c) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In wireless multimedia sensor networks (WMSNs), wirelessly interconnected devices are able to ubiquitously retrieve multimedia contents such as video and audio streams from the environment. However, since WMSN applications are large-scale, dynamic and highly concurrent, how to achieve both effective multimedia device resource management and collaborative task scheduling simultaneously becomes a serious problem. In this paper, using the hierarchical modeling technique, we first propose a device ability model including spatial information. In order to solve the problem of insufficient capacity of single devices, we then give a composite device ability model and relevant calculation formulae. Next, we introduce a novel device resource matching technique based on the proposed model. Compared with previous works, experimental results show that our technique achieves better recall and precision and meets WMSN application needs more effectively. Furthermore, our proposed approach greatly reduces the design complexity as well as the workload of application designers.
This study investigates the finite-time tracking for double-integrator multi-agent systems with bounded control input under the conditions of fixed and switching jointly reachable digraphes. In detail, two continuous distributed tracking protocols are designed to track the virtual leader in finite time with the same velocity and converging position. In particular, one introduces a special continuous distributed tracking protocol with bounded control input to track the virtual leader in finite time and reduce the chatter together. An example is also given to validate the proposed approaches.
A sequential adjustment (SA) method is employed to decrease the computational cost of high-accuracy surface modeling (HASM), and the SA of HASM (HASM-SA) is being developed. A mathematical surface was used to comparatively analyze the computing speed of SA and the classical iterative solvers provided by MATLAB 7.7 for solving the system of linear equations of HASM. Results indicate that SA is much faster than the classical iterative solvers. The computing time of HASM-SA is determined by not only the total number of grid cells but also the number of sampling points in the computational domain. A real-world example of surface modeling of digital elevation models (DEMs) with various resolutions shows that HASM-SA is averagely more accurate and much faster than the commonly used interpolation methods, such as inverse distance weighting (IDW), kriging, and three versions of spline, namely regularized spline (RSpline), thin-plate spline (TPS), and ANUDEM in terms of root mean square error (RMSE), mean absolute error (MAE), and mean error (ME). In particular, the ME of HASM-SA at different spatial resolutions is averagely smaller than those of IDW, kriging, RSpline, TPS, and ANUDEM by 85%, 83%, 83%, 53%, and 19%, respectively. The high speed and high accuracy of HASM-SA can be due to the absence of matrix inversion computation, combined with the perfect fundamental theorem of HASM.
There is a serious lack of detailed and accurate three-dimensional soil distribution information worldwide. This study examined the effectiveness of combining radial basis function (RBF) neural networks and profile depth functions to map the three-dimensional distribution of soil organic matter (SOM) in a subtropical hilly landscape in southern Anhui Province, China. The RBF networks were used to predict the lateral distribution of SOM based on its relations with terrain attributes and land uses, while the depth functions were used to fit its vertical distribution based on sparse measurements of SOM in soil genetic horizons. Compared with power and logarithmic functions, the equal-area quadratic splines had smaller bias, higher accuracy, and more stable performance in fitting the vertical SOM distribution. The prediction accuracy of the whole three-dimensional mapping method decreased with depth within the upper 60 cm, while the best accuracy occurred below 60 cm. In the upper 30 cm, areas with high elevation tended to have high predicted SOM content and vice versa. There were local deviations from this pattern in areas where toeslopes and ravines had higher predicted SOM content than backslopes, even though the latter are at higher elevations. Multiple regressions with dummy variables showed that the influence of terrain conditions on SOM content was strong in the upper 60 cm and weak below 60 cm, while that of land use was strong in the upper 30 cm and weak below 30 cm. Both influences were the strongest in the upper 15-cm soil layer. Under the same terrain conditions, agricultural cultivation is associated with SOM accumulation in the upper 30 cm.
This study examined the resting state neural networks for visual Chinese word processing in Chinese children and adults. Both the functional connectivity (FC) and amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (ALFF) approaches were used to analyze the fMRI data collected when Chinese participants were not engaged in any specific explicit tasks. We correlated time series extracted from the visual word form area (VWFA) with those in other regions in the brain. We also performed ALFF analysis in the resting state FC networks. The FC results revealed that, regarding the functionally connected brain regions, there exist similar intrinsically organized resting state networks for visual Chinese word processing in adults and children, suggesting that such networks may already be functional after 3-4 years of informal exposure to reading plus 3-4 years formal schooling. The ALFF results revealed that children appear to recruit more neural resources than adults in generally reading-irrelevant brain regions. Differences between child and adult ALFF results suggest that children's intrinsic word processing network during the resting state, though similar in functional connectivity, is still undergoing development. Further exposure to visual words and experience with reading are needed for children to develop a mature intrinsic network for word processing. The developmental course of the intrinsically organized word processing network may parallel that of the explicit word processing network. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper discusses the design of distributed control gains for consensus in multi-agent systems with second-order nonlinear dynamics. First, an effective distributed adaptive gain-design strategy is proposed based only on local information of the network structure. Then, a leader-follower consensus problem in multi-agent systems with updated control gains is studied. A distributed adaptive law is then proposed for each follower based on local information of neighboring agents and the leader if this follower is an informed agent. Furthermore, a distributed leader-follower consensus problem in multi-agent systems with unknown nonlinear dynamics is investigated by combining the variable structure approach and the adaptive method. Finally, simulation examples are given to illustrate the theoretical analysis. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper proposes a sweep coverage formulation for a multi-agent system to cover a region with uncertain workload density, and provides a decentralized coverage algorithm based on the formulation. To achieve the coverage, the covered region is divided into a finite number of stripes, and an algorithm is proposed by incorporating two operations on stripes: workload partition and sweeping. Theoretical analysis is given to estimate the error between the actual coverage time and the optimal time, and numerical analysis is provided to illustrate the proposed algorithm. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper presents a cubic spline trajectory generation algorithm that produces continuous position, velocity, and acceleration profiles for CNC machines with confined axis jerk and tracking error A series of reference knots are connected using cubic spline functions in time t for constructing axis trajectories. They are generated in such a way that continuity up to the second derivative is preserved along the overall composite curve. For CNC machines governed by a typical PID controller the tracking error is also constrained as well as the velocity, acceleration, and jerk for each axis. The time intervals between each pair of adjacent knots are scheduled such that the machining time is minimized subject to all the constraints. Experiment results are presented to illustrate the application of the algorithm.
Collecting massive commonsense knowledge (CSK) for commonsense reasoning has been a long time standing challenge within artificial intelligence research. Numerous methods and systems for acquiring CSK have been developed to overcome the knowledge acquisition bottleneck. Although some specific commonsense reasoning tasks have been presented to allow researchers to measure and compare the performance of their CSK systems, we compare them at a higher level from the following aspects: CSK acquisition task (what CSK is acquired from where), technique used (how can CSK be acquired), and CSK evaluation methods (how to evaluate the acquired CSK). In this survey, we first present a categorization of CSK acquisition systems and the great challenges in the field. Then, we review and compare the CSK acquisition systems in detail. Finally, we conclude the current progress in this field and explore some promising future research issues.
This paper tried to reconstruct the time series (TS) of monthly average temperature (MAT), monthly accumulated precipitation (MAP), and monthly accumulated runoff (MAR) during 1901-1960 in the Kaidu River Basin using the Delta method and the three-layered feed forward neural network with backpropagation algorithm (TLBP-FFNN) model. Uncertainties in the reconstruction of hydrometeorological parameters were also discussed. Available monthly observed hydrometeorological data covering the period 1961-2000 from the Kaidu River Basin, the monthly observed meteorological data from three stations in Central Asia, monthly grid climatic data from the Climatic Research Unit (CRU), and Coupled Model Intercomparison Project Phase 3 (CMIP3) dataset covering the period 1901-2000 were used for the reconstruction. It was found that the Delta method performed very well for calibrated and verified MAT in the Kaidu River Basin based on the monthly observed meteorological data from Central Asia, the monthly grid climatic data from CRU, and the CMIP3 dataset from 1961 to 2000. Although calibration and verification of MAP did not perform as well as MAT, MAP at Bayinbuluke station, an alpine meteorological station, showed a satisfactory result based on the data from CRU and CMIP3, indicating that the Delta method can be applied to reconstruct MAT in the Kaidu River Basin on the basis of the selected three data sources and MAP in the mountain area based on CRU and CMIP3. MAR at Dashankou station, a hydrological gauge station on the verge of the Tianshan Mountains, from 1961 to 2000 was well calibrated and verified using the TLBP-FFNN model with structure (8,1,1) by taking MAT and MAP of four meteorological stations from observation; CRU and CMIP3 data, respectively, as inputs; and the model was expanded to reconstruct TS during 1901-1960. While the characteristics of annual periodicity were depicted well by the TS of MAT, MAP, and MAR reconstructed over the target stations during the period 1901-1960, different high frequency signals were captured also. The annual average temperature (AAT) show a significant increasing trend during the 20th century, but annual accumulated precipitation (AAP) and annual accumulated runoff (AAR) do not. Although some uncertainties exist in the hydrometeorological reconstruction, this work should provide a viable reference for studying long-term change of climate and water resources as well as risk assessment of flood and drought in the Kaidu River Basin, a region of fast economic development.
In this paper, we develop an inductive approach to strand spaces, by introducing an inductive definition for bundles. This definition provides us not only a constructive illustration for bundles, but also an effective and rigorous technique of rule induction to reason about properties of bundles. With this induction principle, we can prove that our bundle model is sound in the sense that a bundle is a causally well-founded graph. This approach also gives an alternative to rigorously prove a generalized version of authentication tests. To illustrate the applicability of our approach, we have performed case studies on verification of secrecy and authentication properties of the Needham-Schroeder-Lowe and Otway-Rees protocols. Our approach has been mechanized using Isabelle/HOL.
By simulating the self-adaptive phenomena of plants in nature, a novel evolutionary algorithm named Bean Optimization Algorithm (BOA) was proposed in 2008. BOA can be used for resolving complex optimization problems. As BOA is a new optimization algorithm, theoretical analysis of the algorithm is still very preliminary. Research on the state transfer process and the convergence behavior of BOA is of great significance for understanding it. In this paper, we build the Markov chain model of this algorithm and analyze the characters of this Markov chain. Then we analyze the transferring process of the bean memeplex status series and point out that the memeplex status series will enter the best status set. We also prove that this algorithm meets the requirement of global convergence criterion of random search algorithms. Finally we get the conclusion that BOA will make sure to get the global optimum.
A new generalised iterative learning algorithm is presented for complex dynamic non-Gaussian stochastic processes. After designed neural networks are used to approximate the output probability density function (PDF) of the stochastic system in the repetitive processes or the batch processes, the complex probabilistic tracking control to the output PDF is simplified into a parameter tuning problem between two adjacent repetitive processes. Under this framework, this article studies a novel model free iterative learning control problem and proposes a convex optimisation algorithm based on a set of designed linear matrix inequalities and L-1 optimisation index. It is noted that such an algorithm can improve the tracking performance and robustness for the closed-loop PDF control. A simulated example is given, which effectively demonstrates the use of the proposed control algorithm.
Biological removal of carbon, nitrogen and sulfur is drawing increasing research interest in search for an efficient and cost-effective wastewater treatment. While extensive work on separate removal of nitrogen and sulfur is well documented, investigation on simultaneous denitrifying sulfide removal has only been reported recently. Most of the work on denitrifying sulfide removal has been focusing on bioreactor performance, loading and operating conditions. Nonetheless, underlying principles elucidating the biochemical reactions and the mechanisms of the microbial degradation are yet to be established. In addition, unstable denitrifying sulfide removal which is a major operating problem that hinders practical application of the process, is yet to be resolved. This paper provides a review on the state-of-the-art development of simultaneous biological removal of sulfur, nitrogen and carbon. Research on bioreactor operation and performance, reactor configurations, mechanisms and modeling work including the use of mass balance analysis and artificial neural networks is delineated. An in-depth discussion on the microbial community and functional consortium is also provided. Challenges and future work on simultaneous biological removal of nitrogen-sulfur-carbon are also outlined. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
We report a new global potential energy surface of the HOCO system based on the F12 correction of unrestricted coupled-cluster with singles doubles and approximative triples using the augmented correlation-consistent polarized valence triple-zeta basis set (UCCSD(T)-F12/AVTZ), fitted by using the neural networks. Quantum dynamics calculations confirmed the satisfactory convergence of surface with respect to the number of data points and fitting process. It is found that the total reaction probabilities and complex-formation probabilities obtained on the present surface differ considerably with those obtained on the potential energy surface recently reported by Li et al. [J. Chem. Phys. 136, 041103 (2012)]. Various comparisons revealed that the present surface is substantially more accurate than that surface, representing the best available potential energy surface for this benchmark complex-forming four-atom system. (C) 2013 AIP Publishing LLC.
In this paper, we solve the zero-sum game problems for discrete-time affine nonlinear systems with known dynamics via iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm. First, a greedy heuristic dynamic programming iteration algorithm is developed to solve the zero-sum game problems, which can be used to solve the Hamilton-Jacobi-Isaacs equation associated with H-infinity optimal regulation control problems. The convergence analysis in terms of value function and control policy is provided. To facilitate the implementation of the algorithm, three neural networks are used to approximate the control policy, the disturbance policy, and the value function, respectively. Then, we extend the algorithm to R, optimal tracking control problems through system transformation. Finally, two simulation examples are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A dynamic phase-space constraint method is proposed to control complex chaotic dynamics in a chaotic neural network (CNN), by limiting refractoriness internal states with a time-varying threshold. The limiting threshold evolves according to a control signal derived from the feedback internal states of the network. Simulation results reveal that the CNN under control exhibits multiphase behavior in the control parameter space. With proper parameter values, the controlled CNN converges to a periodic orbit which includes a stored pattern that has the smallest Hamming distance to its initial state. The properties of the controlled CNN can be used for information processing such as memory retrieval and pattern recognition. (C) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This work investigates the influence of cytophilic and anisotropic nanomaterials on accelerated cell attachment and directional migration toward rapid wound healing. Inspired by the anisotropic protein nanofibers in scab, a polyurethane (PU) nanofibrous membrane with an aligned structure was fabricated. The membrane showed good, affinity for wound-healing-related cells and could guide cell migration in the direction of PU nanofibers. Also, the morphology and distribution of P-actin and paxillin of attached cells were influenced by the underlying nanofibers. The randomly distributed PU nanofibers and planar PU membrane did not show a distinct impact on cell migration. This scab-inspired cytophilic membrane is promising in applications as functional interfacial biomaterials for rapid wound healing, bone repair, and construction of neural networks.
The West Songnen Plain is an ecologically fragile area. The grasslands on the plain have been seriously degraded over the past five decades and this process is continuing. The reliable estimation of grassland aboveground biomass (AGB) provides scientific data for determining the livestock stocking rate on rangeland. AGB is also of considerable significance for biodiversity and environmental protection in this region. Remote sensing is the most effective way to estimate grassland AGB on a regional scale. Multitemporal, remotely sensed data were used for grassland AGB estimation with statistical models and an artificial neural network (ANN), and the accuracy of estimation for these methods was compared. The results demonstrate that the use of multi-temporal remotely sensed data has advantages for grassland AGB estimation, whether with statistical models or ANN methods, compared with single-temporal remotely sensed data, although the ANN had a higher accuracy of estimation for grassland AGB. Finally, the grassland AGB on the Songnen Plain was estimated with the ANN using multitemporal MODIS data. The spatial distribution pattern of grassland AGB showed large variations, and grassland productivity was generally low. The maximum green weight of the grassland AGB was 927.22 g/m(2) and was mainly distributed on the northeast of the West Songnen Plain. The minimum green weight of the grassland AGB was 194.82 g/m(2) and was mainly distributed on the central and southwestern West Songnen Plain. Most of the areas had medium- and low-yielding grasses. The significant increases of population and livestock number were the primary and direct reasons for the decrease in grassland quality. This study will contribute to policy making for the control of grazing and for biodiversity and environmental protection. (C) 2013 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE)
A new kind of recurrent neural network is presented for solving the Lyapunov equation with time-varying coefficient matrices. Different from other neural-computation approaches, the neural network is developed by following Zhang et al.'s design method, which is capable of solving the time-varying Lyapunov equation. The resultant Zhang neural network (ZNN) with implicit dynamics could globally exponentially converge to the exact time-varying solution of such a Lyapunov equation. Computer-simulation results substantiate that the proposed recurrent neural network could achieve much superior performance on solving the Lyapunov equation with time-varying coefficient matrices, as compared to conventional gradient-based neural networks (GNN). (C) 2013 IMACS. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Swarm intelligence embodied by many species such as ants and bees has inspired scholars in swarm robotic researches. This paper presents a novel autonomous self-assembly distributed swarm flying robot-DSFR, which can drive on the ground, autonomously accomplish self-assembly and then fly in the air coordinately. Mechanical and electrical designs of a DSFR module, as well as the kinematics and dynamics analysis, are specifically investigated. Meanwhile, this paper brings forward a generalized adjacency matrix to describe configurations of DSFR structures. Also, the distributed flight control model is established for vertical taking-off and horizontal hovering, which can be applied to control of DSFR systems with arbitrary configurations. Finally, some experiments are carried out to testify and validate the DSFR design, the autonomous self-assembly strategy and the distributed flight control laws. (C) 2013 Production and hosting by Elsevier Ltd. on behalf of CSAA & BUAA.
The dynamics of a discrete-time predator prey model with Holling-IV functional response are investigated. It is shown that the model undergoes a flip bifurcation, a Hopf bifurcation and a saddle-node bifurcation by using the center manifold theorem and bifurcation theory. Numerical simulations not only exhibit our results with the theoretical analysis, but also show the complex dynamical behaviors, such as the period-3, 6, 9, 12, 20, 63, 70, 112 orbits, a cascade of period-doubling bifurcations in period-2, 4, 8, 16, quasi-periodic orbits, an attracting invariant circle, an inverse period-doubling bifurcation from the period-32 orbit leading to chaos and a boundary crisis, a sudden onset of chaos and a sudden disappearance of the chaotic dynamics, attracting chaotic sets and non-attracting sets. We also observe that when the prey is in chaotic dynamics the predator can tend to extinction or to a stable equilibrium. Specifically, we stabilize the chaotic orbits at an unstable fixed point by using OGY chaotic control.
Accurate forecasting of municipal solid waste (MSW) generation is crucial and fundamental for the planning, operation and optimization of any MSW management system. Comprehensive information on waste generation for month-scale, medium-term and long-term time scales is especially needed, considering the necessity of MSW management upgrade facing many developing countries. Several existing models are available but of little use in forecasting MSW generation at multiple time scales. The goal of this study is to propose a hybrid model that combines the seasonal autoregressive integrated moving average (SARIMA) model and grey system theory to forecast MSW generation at multiple time scales without needing to consider other variables such as demographics and socioeconomic factors. To demonstrate its applicability, a case study of Xiamen City, China was performed. Results show that the model is robust enough to fit and forecast seasonal and annual dynamics of MSW generation at month-scale, medium- and long-term time scales with the desired accuracy. In the month-scale, MSW generation in Xiamen City will peak at 132.2 thousand tonnes in July 2015 - 1.5 times the volume in July 2010. In the medium term, annual MSW generation will increase to 1518.1 thousand tonnes by 2015 at an average growth rate of 10%. In the long term, a large volume of MSW will be output annually and will increase to 2486.3 thousand tonnes by 2020 - 2.5 times the value for 2010. The hybrid model proposed in this paper can enable decision makers to develop integrated policies and measures for waste management over the long term. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The study investigated the reference state of the macroinvertebrates and their relation to hydro-environmental factors for the Lijiang River, which can be served to assess the impact of flow regulations on the river ecosystem. Samples of water, sediment and benthos were taken from three reaches located in the upstream, middle stream and downstream respectively during March-April 2010. Parameters characterizing flow, chemical and biological conditions were analyzed for each sample. In total, 31 species of 6 classes were identified, including Insecta (13 species), Gastropoda (8 species), Lamellibranchiata (3 species), Crustacea (3 species), Oligochaeta (2 species) and Hirudinea (2 species). The density ranged from 20 ind./m(2) to 3780 ind./m(2) with an average of 750 ind./m(2). The macrofauna composition was Gastropoda (48.0%), Insecta (23.9%), Lamellibranchia (14.9%) and the others (13.2%). The biomass ranged from 0.9 g/m(2) to 1001.6 g/m(2) with an average of 150.8 g/m(2). The macrofauna composition was Gastropoda (70.5%), Lamellibranchia (24.7%) and the others (4.8%). Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) revealed that species distributions were mainly governed by flow velocity, conductivity, chemical oxygen demand (COD) and total nitrogen. (C) 2012 International Association for Hydro-environment Engineering and Research, Asia Pacific Division. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Applications of seismic inversions strongly depend on inversion methods, data quality, and reservoir complexity. An advanced inversion scheme to integrate seismic data, well data, and geological knowledge is employed by combining statistical Caianiello convolutional networks with a hierarchical seismic convolutional model for impedance estimation and with nonlinear petrophysical models for porosity and clay-content inversions. The method used to measure the reliability of seismic inversions for different geological complexities is important for reservoir characterisation. The widely used cross-validation may not be the best for the evaluation of the reliability of seismic inversions because of different geological conditions away from wells. As a supplementary means and also to understand failed cross-validations, we propose a systematic methodology to measure the reliability of seismic inversions through prior seismic-to-well correlation analyses for the fidelity of seismic data. The resulting correlation coefficients at the main frequencies of seismic data may express what degree the seismic data reflect the subsurface reliably in both amplitude and phase. First, the low-cut filtered borehole impedance logs are correlated with the seismic relative impedance traces computed by trace integration of seismic traces at wells. The resulting correlation coefficients within the seismic frequency band could be an index with which to evaluate the reliability of seismic inversions for impedance estimation. Second, the correlation between borehole impedance and porosity/clay-content is analysed by measuring the overall trend across the cloud of data points in the logging-databased cross-plot. The resulting correlation coefficients could be used to evaluate the reliability of mapping seismic impedance to porosity/clay content. Case studies from several oilfields across China show that the prior seismic-to-well correlation analyses are an excellent way to test the reliability of seismic inversions before the implementation of inversions.
This paper presents an efficient approach to achieve microparticles flocking with robotics and optical tweezers technologies. All particles trapped by optical tweezers can be automatically moved toward a predefined region without collision. The main contribution of this paper lies in the proposal of several solutions to the flocking manipulation of microparticles in micro environments. First, a simple flocking controller is proposed to generate the desired positions and velocities for particles' movement. Second, a velocity saturation method is implemented to prevent the desired velocities from exceeding a safe limit. Third, a two-layer control architecture is proposed for the motion control of optical tweezers. This architecture can help make many robotic manipulations achievable under microenvironments. The proposed approach with these solutions can be applied to many bioapplications especially in cell engineering and biomedicine. Experiments on yeast cells with a robot-tweezers system are finally performed to verify the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Species distribution models have been used extensively in many fields, including climate change biology, landscape ecology and conservation biology. In the past 3 decades, a number of new models have been proposed, yet researchers still find it difficult to select appropriate models for data and objectives. In this review, we aim to provide insight into the prevailing species distribution models for newcomers in the field of modelling. We compared 11 popular models, including regression models (the generalized linear model, the generalized additive model, the multivariate adaptive regression splines model and hierarchical modelling), classification models (mixture discriminant analysis, the generalized boosting model, and classification and regression tree analysis) and complex models (artificial neural network, random forest, genetic algorithm for rule set production and maximum entropy approaches). Our objectives are: (i) to compare the strengths and weaknesses of the models, their characteristics and identify suitable situations for their use (in terms of data type and species-environment relationships) and (ii) to provide guidelines for model application, including 3 steps: model selection, model formulation and parameter estimation.
A multi-agent system (MAS) consists of multiple agents, each under the influence of a local rule that represents its interaction with other agents. Most recent research on discrete-time MASs concentrates on local rules that are linear and does not deal with communication constraints on the information exchange among agents. However, local interactions between agents in the real world are more likely governed by nonlinear rules and are in the presence of time-varying delays. This paper aims to investigate the consensus of a discrete-time MAS with transmission nonlinearity and time-varying delays. In particular, based on a representative general nonlinear model, we obtain several basic criteria for the consensus of the MAS. These results cover several existing results as their special cases. Moreover, the model we consider does not satisfy the convexity assumption which was commonly taken as an important condition for the consensus of discrete-time MASs. The assumptions we make on the nonlinear transmission function are necessary in the sense that, if they are not satisfied, a connected topology can be constructed that does not guarantee consensus. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Since software development has become an essential investment for many organizations recently, both the software industry and academic communities are more and more concerned about a reliable and accurate estimation of the software development effort. This study puts forward six widely used case-based reasoning (CBR) methods with optimized weights derived from the particle swarm optimization (PSO) method to estimate the software effort. Meanwhile, four combination methods are adopted to assemble the results of independent CBR methods. The experiments are carried out using two datasets of software projects from Desharnais dataset and Miyazaki dataset. Experimental results show that different CBR methods can get the best results in different parameters settings, and there is not a best method for the software effort estimation among the six different CBR methods. Currently, combination methods proposed in this study outperform independent methods, and the weighted mean combination (WMC) method can get the better result.
The automatic construction of networked software and its ability to adapt to dynamic environments are important for cloud services that depend upon these capabilities. We provide a cloud service that browses the stacks of problem solution resources produced in the software process (SP for short) by organizing them into a structured Resource Space according to domain topics. Efforts are made to provide the cloud service with the ability of automatic construction of the SP problem-solving Resource Space, including extracting domain topics from document resources with the TDDF algorithm, transforming the topics into several categories to form the logic Resource Space, and deploying the Resource Space in a Peer-to-Peer (P2P for short) network. We also expect to achieve the online service evolution such as adjusting the resource pool and refining the Resource Space Model (RSM for short) by continuously understanding and adapting to its surroundings. Empirical cases are finally presented. Our investigation promotes the adaptability of cloud services to their changing environment.
In this paper, we are concerned with the problem of nonlinear inequalities defined on a graph. The feasible solution set to this problem is often infinity and Laplacian eigenmap is used as heuristic information to gain better performance in the solution. A continuous-time projected neural network, and the corresponding discrete-time projected neural network are both given to tackle this problem iteratively. The convergence of the neural networks are proven in theory. The effectiveness of the proposed neural networks are tested and compared with others via its applications in the range-free localization of wireless sensor networks. Simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods.
The employment of intelligent energy management systems likely allows reducing consumptions and thus saving money for consumers. The residential load demand must be met, and some advantages can be obtained if specific optimization policies are taken. With an efficient use of renewable sources and power imported from the grid, an intelligent and adaptive system which manages the battery is able to satisfy the load demand and minimize the entire energy cost related to the scenario under study. In this paper, an adaptive dynamic programming-based algorithm is presented to face dynamic situations, in which some conditions of the environment or habits of customer may vary with time, especially using renewable energy. Based on the idea of smart grid, we propose an intelligent management scheme for renewable resources combined with battery implemented with a faster and simpler scheme of dynamic programming, by considering only one critic network and some optimization policies in order to satisfy the load demand. Since this kind of problem is suitable to avoid the training of an action network, the training loop among the two neural networks is deleted and the training process is greatly simplified. Computer simulations confirm the effectiveness of this self-learning design in a typical residential scenario.
Energy management in smart home environment is nowadays a crucial aspect on which technologies have been focusing on in order to save costs and minimize energy waste. This goal can be reached by means of an energy resource scheduling strategy provided by a suitable optimization technique. The proposed solution involves a class of Adaptive Critic Designs (ACDs) called Action Dependent Heuristic Dynamic Programming (ADHDP) that uses two neural networks, namely the Action and the Critic Network. This scheme is able to minimize a given Utility Function over a certain time horizon. In order to increase the performances of the ADHDP algorithm, suitable Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) based procedures are used to pretrain the weights of the Action and the Critic networks. The results provided by PSO techniques and by a non-optimal baseline approach are also used as elements of comparison. Computer simulations have been carried out in different residential scenarios. An historical data set for solar irradiation has been used to simulate the behavior of a photovoltaic array to obtain renewable energy and the main grid is used to supply the load and charge the battery when necessary. The results confirm that the ADHDP is able to reduce the overall energy cost with respect to the baseline solution and the PSO techniques. Moreover, the validity of this method has also been shown in a more realistic context where only forecasted values of solar irradiation and electricity price can be used. (c) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Objectives: The First Episode Social Functioning Scale (FESFS) was designed to measure social functioning of young individuals with schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to validate a Chinese version of the FESFS in a sample of young Chinese adults.
Background: Recent microbiologic studies have shown that quorum sensing mechanisms, which serve as one of the fundamental requirements for bacterial survival, exist widely in bacterial intra-and inter-species cell-cell communication. Many simulation models, inspired by the social behavior of natural organisms, are presented to provide new approaches for solving realistic optimization problems. Most of these simulation models follow population-based modelling approaches, where all the individuals are updated according to the same rules. Therefore, it is difficult to maintain the diversity of the population.
For a given multi-agent system where the local interaction rule of the existing agents can not be re-designed, one way to intervene the collective behavior of the system is to add one or a few special agents into the group which are still treated as normal agents by the existing ones. We study how to lead a Vicsek-like flocking model to reach synchronization by adding special agents. A popular method is to add some simple leaders (fixed-headings agents). However, we add one intelligent agent, called 'shill', which uses online feedback information of the group to decide the shill's moving direction at each step. A novel strategy for the shill to coordinate the group is proposed. It is strictly proved that a shill with this strategy and a limited speed can synchronize every agent in the group. The computer simulations show the effectiveness of this strategy in different scenarios, including different group sizes, shill speed, and with or without noise. Compared to the method of adding some fixed-heading leaders, our method can guarantee synchronization for any initial configuration in the deterministic scenario and improve the synchronization level significantly in low density groups, or model with noise. This suggests the advantage and power of feedback information in intervention of collective behavior.
A search for the standard model Higgs boson produced in association with a top-quark pair is presented using data samples corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 5.0 fb(-1) (5.1 fb-1) collected in pp collisions at the center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV (8 TeV). Events are considered where the top-quark pair decays to either one lepton+jets (t (t) over bar -> l nu q (q) over bar 'b (b) over bar) or dileptons (t (t) over bar -> l(+)nu l-nu b (b) over bar), being an electron or a muon. The search is optimized for the decay mode H -> b (b) over bar. The largest background to the t (t) over barH signal is top-quark pair production with additional jets. Artificial neural networks are used to discriminate between signal and background events. Combining the results from the 7 TeV and 8 TeV samples, the observed (expected) limit on the cross section for Higgs boson production in association with top-quark pairs for a Higgs boson mass of 125 GeV is 5.8 (5.2) times the standard model expectation.
Based on canonical correlation analysis (CCA), we propose a technique to map the peak electron density of the ionospheric F2-layer (NmF2) from the global observations of the total electron content (TEC). We first statistically analyze the canonical correlation between NmF2 and TEC using the NmF2 observations of the worldwide ionosonde stations and global ionospheric maps (GIMs) of TEC (TEC-GIMs) provided by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. The obtained CCA modes consist of the CCA patterns and corresponding amplitudes, which separately reflect the short-term (e.g., diurnal variation) and long-term (e.g., annual, semiannual variations, and solar-cycle variations, etc.) tendencies of NmF2. With the obtained CCA patterns and corresponding amplitudes, we then construct two TEC-derived models of the monthly median NmF2, a single station model at Boulder (105.3 degrees W, 40 degrees N) and a global model. The CCA results are further compared with the observations and corresponding NmF2 predictions of the International Reference Ionosphere 2007 (IRI-07). It is found that the CCA NmF2 is in better agreement with the observations at Boulder than the IRI-07 NmF2. On the other hand, the temporal and spatial structures of NmF2 are successfully reproduced by the global model. Furthermore, the correlation coefficient (root mean square error) of the CCA NmF2 versus the observed NmF2 is relatively higher (lower) than that of IRI-07 NmF2. The CCA NmF2 from the global model is more reliable. Thus, we conclude that the CCA technique provides an effective approach to map the global NmF2 from the TEC-GIMs.
In this study, three hybrid approaches based on least squares support vector regression (LSSVR) model for container throughput forecasting at ports are proposed. The proposed hybrid approaches are compared empirically with each other and with other benchmark methods in terms of measurement criteria on the forecasting performance. The results suggest that the proposed hybrid approaches can achieve better forecasting performance than individual approaches. It is implied that the description of the seasonal nature and nonlinear characteristics of container throughput series is important for good forecasting performance, which can be realized efficiently by decomposition and the "divide and conquer" principle. (c) 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, distributed output feedback control of Markov jump multi-agent systems (MASs) is investigated. Both dynamic equations and index functions of the MASs involved contain Markov jump parameters. The information available for each agent to design their controllers are only the noisy output and the jump parameters. By Markov jump optimal filtering theory and the mean field approach, distributed output feedback control laws are presented. Under some mild conditions, it is shown that the closed-loop system is uniformly stable and the distributed control is sub-optimal. (c) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A distributed sampled-data based protocol is proposed for the average consensus of second-order integral multi-agent systems under switching topologies and communication noises. Under the proposed protocol, it is proved that sufficient conditions for ensuring mean square average consensus are: the consensus gain satisfies the stochastic approximation type condition and the communication topology graph at each sampling instant is a balanced graph with a spanning tree. Moreover, if the consensus gain takes some particular forms, the proposed protocol can solve the almost sure average consensus problem as well. Compared with the previous work, the distinguished features of this paper lie in that: (1) a sampled-data based stochastic approximation type protocol is proposed for the consensus of second-order integral multi-agent systems; (2) both communication noises and switching topologies are simultaneously considered; and (3) average consensus can be reached not only in the mean square sense but also in the almost sure sense. (c) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The cooperative output regulation problem for linear uncertain multi-agent systems was studied in [14] via an internal model approach under the assumption that the information graph of the system contains no cycle. In this technical note, we further show that the no-cycle assumption can be removed if all subsystems of the follower have the same nominal dynamics. Moreover, by directly making use of the property of the internal model, we provide a more straightforward proof than the one in [14] in that we don't need to verify the satisfaction of certain matrix equations.
The first neuroimaging study of real-time brain activity during insight problem solving was conducted almost ten years ago. Many subsequent studies have used high-resolution event-related potentials (ERPs) and event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate the temporal dynamics and neural correlates of insight. Recent results on the neural underpinnings of insight have led researchers to propose a neural framework referred to as the "insightful brain". This putative framework represents the neural basis of the cognitive and affective processes that are involved in insight. The insightful brain may involve numerous brain regions, including the lateral prefrontal cortex, cingulate cortex, hippocampus, superior temporal gyrus, fusiform gyrus, precuneus, cuneus, insula and cerebellum. Functional studies have demonstrated that the lateral prefrontal cortex is responsible for mental set shifting and breaking during insight problem solving. The cingulate cortex is involved in the cognitive conflict between new and old ideas and progress monitoring. The hippocampus, superior temporal gyrus and fusiform gyrus form an integrated functional network that specializes in the formation of novel and effective associations. The effective transformation of problem representations depends on a non-verbal visuospatial information-processing network that comprises the precuneus and cuneus. The insula reflects cognitive flexibility and the emotional experience that is associated with insight. The cortical control of finger movements relies on the cerebellum.
Granular neural networks(GNNs) as a new calculation system structure based on Granular Computing(GrC) and artificial neural network can be able to deal with all kinds of granular information of the real world. This article has made the summary on the development and the present situation of GNNs. Firstly, it introduces the basic model of GrC: word calculation model based on fuzzy sets theory, rough sets model, granular computing model based on quotient space theory and so on, summarizes the research progress of fuzzy neural networks(FNNs) and rough neural networks(RNNs), then analyses the ensemble-based methods of GNNs, researches their meeting point of three main GrC methods, and finally points out the research and development direction of GNNs.
Evidence indicates that cysteine protease falcipain-2 plays essential role in malaria parasites; therefore the potent and selective inhibitors of falcipain-2 may be therapeutically useful drugs for treatment of various forms of malaria parasite plasmodium. In order to understand the structure-activity correlation of falcipain-2 inhibitors, a set of ligand- and receptor-based 3D-QSAR models were, for the first time, developed in the present work employing Comparative Molecular Field Analysis (CoMFA) and Comparative Molecular Similarity Index Analysis (CoMSIA) for 240 promising molecules. Based on the ligand- based alignment, an optimal 3D-QSAR model was obtained with good predictive power of Q(2) - 0.501, R-ncv(2) - 0.890, SEE - 0.282, F - 153.522 and R-pred(2) - 0.768. And the contour maps intuitively suggest where to modify the molecular structures in order to improve the binding affinity. In addition, docking analysis and molecular dynamics simulation (MD) study were also carried out on the dataset with purpose of exploring the detailed binding modes of ligand in the falcipain-2 binding pocket. The combination of docking analysis and MD simulation shows that Gly83, Trp43 and Ala175 which formed several H-bonds are crucial for falcipain-2 inhibitors. The analysis of the best QSAR model reveals the structural features related to the activity, and provides an insight into molecular mechanisms of inhibition and possible modification of the molecules for better activity.
Multiple factors of task difficulty keep problem solvers from finding the crucial thinking steps required to solve insight problems. In this study, we distinguished two difficulty factors, chunk familiarity and chunk tightness, and investigated their effects on chunk decompositiona specific type of insight that depends on the process of breaking up perceptual patterns or chunks into elements so that they can be reorganized to form a new meaning. Subjects solved problems that required decomposing Chinese characters that differed in chunk familiarity and chunk tightness. Brain activity was recorded using the electroencephalogram and functional magnetic resonance imaging. The results showed that chunk familiarity could be overcome through an inhibition of familiar meanings, whereas overcoming chunk tightness required visual-spatial processing. Furthermore, chunk familiarity posed an additional difficulty when chunk tightness was high. This result demonstrates that the difficulty sources in a problem do not always simply add up. Rather, the difficulty of a problem can reside in the interaction of particular sources of difficulty. Hum Brain Mapp, 2013. (c) 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Bionic engineering has been a focus in the field of robotic researches. Inverse dynamic analysis is significant for the determination of dynamic parameters of bionic robots. The present paper uses a newly developed robot modular named Sambot to construct a caterpillar robotic mechanism, and designs a gait of trapezoidal wave locomotion for it. Two open-link models are put forth to simulate the dynamic behavior of such a locomotion. The inverse dynamic differential equations are derived by Kane's method and are then solved numerically by the Runge-Kutta method of the fourth order. Based on the numerical solutions of these differential equations, the applied joint torques required to produce the harmonic trapezoidal wave locomotion are determined finally, providing us important information on the gait control of the caterpillar robotic mechanism. Finally, the theoretical values of the joint torques are applied onto the present caterpillar mechanism to perform a locomotion experiment, which verifies the effectiveness of the present dynamics analysis.
Accurate prediction of spatial distribution of soil organic matter (SOM) at different scales is important for various applications related to land use and environmental problems. This study proposed a radial basis function neural networks model (RBFNN), combined with principal component analysis (PCA), to predict the spatial distribution of SOM content across China. To assess its feasibility, 6241 soil samples collected during the second national soil survey period were used. To predict the SOM at such scale, the entire study area was firstly divided into 22 different soil-landscape units according to soil types and vegetation types; then 11 quantitative environmental factors derived from climate, topography, and vegetation were converted into principal components (PC) and the first five PCs which explain 92.97% of the total data variance were selected as predictors for the purpose of eliminating the mulicollinearity of these actual variables and reducing the number of predictors; finally, a specific artificial neural network model was trained for each soil-landscape unit to capture the relationships between SOM and PCs and then used to predict the distribution of SOM content within the corresponding soil-landscape unit. The performance of this approach was evaluated by several validation indices and compared with multiple linear regression (MLR) and regression kriging (RK). The results have shown that RBFNN performs much better than both MLR and RK with much higher ratio of performance to deviation (RPD) and lower prediction errors (mean absolute error (MAE), mean relative error (MRE) and root mean squared error (RMSE)). The RPD obtained by RBFNN was 1.94, which resulted in relative improvement of 29.33% compared with RK and MLR. The three prediction errors of RBFNN were smaller than that of MLR and RK by 3.10 g.kg(-1), 17.25%, 6.25 g.kg(-1), and by 234 g.kg(-1), 5.93%, 6.24 g.kg(-1) respectively. Also, RBFNN presented a more realistic spatial pattern of SOM than RK and MLR. The good performance of this method can be attributed to the division of the study area and the capability of RBFNN to capture the nonlinear relationships between SOM and environmental factors within different soil-landscape units. The result suggests that the proposed method can play a vital role in improving prediction accuracy of SOM within a large area. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A novel distributed hunting approach for multiple autonomous robots in unstructured mode-free environments, which is based on effective sectors and local sensing, is proposed in this paper. The visual information, encoder and sonar data are integrated in the robot's local frame, and the effective sector is introduced. The hunting task is modelled as three states: search state, round-obstacle state, and hunting state, and the corresponding switching conditions and control strategies are given. A form of cooperation will emerge where the robots interact only locally with each other. The evader, whose motion is a priori unknown to the robots, adopts an escape strategy to avoid being captured. The approach is scalable and may cope with problems of communication and wheel slippage. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is verified through experiments with a team of wheeled robots.
This paper proposes a new method for mobile robots to recognize places with the use of a single camera and natural landmarks. In the learning stage, the robot is manually guided along a path. Video sequences are captured with a front-facing camera. To reduce the perceptual alias of visual features, which are easily confused, we propose a modified visual feature descriptor which combines the dominant hue colour information with the local texture. A Location Features Vocabulary Model (LVFM) is established for each individual location using an unsupervised learning algorithm. During the course of travelling, the robot employs each detected interest point to vote for the most likely place. The spatial relationships between the locations, modelled by the Hidden Markov Model (HMM), are exploited to increase the robustness of location recognition in cases of dynamic change or visual similarity. The proposed descriptors are compared with several state-of-the-art descriptors including SIFT, colour SIFT, GLOH and SURF. Experiments show that both the LVFM based on the dominant Hue-SIFT feature and the spatial relationships between the locations contribute considerably to the high recognition rate.
A global potential energy surface for the H-2 + OH <-> H2O + H reaction has been constructed using the neural networks method based on similar to 17 000 ab initio energies calculated at UCCSD(T)-F12a/AVTZ level of theory. Time-dependent wave packet calculations showed that the new potential energy surface is very well converged with respect to the number of ab initio data points, as well as to the fitting process. Various tests revealed that the new surface is considerably more smooth and accurate than the existing YZCL2 and XXZ surfaces, representing the best available potential energy surface for the benchmark four-atom system. Equally importantly, the number of ab initio energies required to obtain the well converged potential energy surface is rather limited, indicating the neural network fitting is a powerful method to construct accurate potential energy surfaces for polyatomic reactions. (C) 2013 AIP Publishing LLC. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1063/1.4801658]
Methane (CH4) emissions from wetland ecosystems in nothern high latitudes provide a potentially positive feedback to global climate warming. Large uncertainties still remain in estimating wetland CH4 emisions at regional scales. Here we develop a statistical model of CH4 emissions using an artificial neural network (ANN) approach and field observations of CH4 fluxes. Six explanatory variables (air temperature, precipitation, water table depth, soil organic carbon, soil total porosity, and soil pH) are included in the development of ANN models, which are then extrapolated to the northern high latitudes to estimate monthly CH4 emissions from 1990 to 2009. We estimate that the annual wetland CH4 source from the northern high latitudes (north of 45 degrees N) is 48.7 (4) yr(-1) (1 (12)g) with an uncertainty range of 44.0 similar to 53.7 (4) yr(-1). (4) emissions show a large spatial variability over the northern high latitudes, due to variations in hydrology, climate, and soil conditions. Significant interannual and seasonal variations of wetland CH4 emissions exist in the past 2 decades, and the emissions in this period are most sensitive to variations in water table position. (4) dynamics in this region, research priorities should be directed to better characterizing hydrological processes of wetlands, including temporal dynamics of water table position and spatial dynamics of wetland areas.
One of the major limitations for Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM)-based nanomanipulation is that AFM only has one sharp tip as the end-effector, and can only apply a point force to the nanoobject, which makes it extremely difficult to achieve a stable manipulation. For example, the AFM tip tends to slip-away during nanoparticle manipulation due to its small touch area, and there is no available strategy to manipulate a nanorod in a constant posture with a single tip since the applied point force can make the nanorod rotate more easily. In this paper, a robotic nano-hand method is proposed to solve these problems. The basic idea is using a single tip to mimic the manipulation effect that multi-AFM tip can achieve through the planned high speed sequential tip pushing. The theoretical behavior models of nanoparticle and nanorod are developed, based on which the moving speed and trajectory of the AFM tip are planned artfully to form a nano-hand. In this way, the slip-away problem during nanoparticle manipulation can be get rid of efficiently, and a posture constant manipulation for nanorod can be achieved. The simulation and experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and advantages of the proposed method.
With such advantages as nonphysical cell contact and a relatively high efficiency, the application of optical tweezers for the manipulation of biological cells has received increasing attention in recent years. The use of optical tweezers to transfer cells to user-defined goal positions is useful in many biomedical applications. In this paper, we investigate how to automatically transport biological cells using robotically controlled optical tweezers. We characterize the forces applied to a trapped cell by a dynamic viscous drag force method, which provides us insight into information on optimal motion parameters. To prevent the cell from escaping the optical trap and to ensure high efficiency in cell movement, a proportional-integral (PI) scheme, designed based on calibrated dynamic parameters, is used to determine the ideal movement velocity of the cell. The PI scheme utilizes a feedback of the actual cell displacement from the laser focus. Finally, a modified A* algorithm is adopted for path planning during automated cell transportation. Experiments are finally performed to verify the proposed approach.
This study presents a novel translating piezoelectric flexible manipulator driven by a rodless cylinder. Simultaneous positioning control and vibration suppression of the flexible manipulator is accomplished by using a hybrid driving scheme composed of the pneumatic cylinder and a piezoelectric actuator. Pulse code modulation (PCM) method is utilized for the cylinder. First, the system dynamics model is derived, and its standard multiple input multiple output (MIMO) state-space representation is provided. Second, a composite proportional derivative (PD) control algorithms and a direct adaptive fuzzy control method are designed for the MIMO system. Also, a time delay compensation algorithm, bandstop and low-pass filters are utilized, under consideration of the control hysteresis and the caused high-frequency modal vibration due to the long stroke of the cylinder, gas compression and nonlinear factors of the pneumatic system. The convergence of the closed loop system is analyzed. Finally, experimental apparatus is constructed and experiments are conducted. The effectiveness of the designed controllers and the hybrid driving scheme is verified through simulation and experimental comparison studies. The numerical simulation and experimental results demonstrate that the proposed system scheme of employing the pneumatic drive and piezoelectric actuator can suppress the vibration and achieve the desired positioning location simultaneously. Furthermore, the adopted adaptive fuzzy control algorithms can significantly enhance the control performance. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The organic-rich Marcellus Shale was deposited in a foreland basin during Middle Devonian. In terms of mineral composition and organic matter richness, we define seven mudrock lithofacies: three organic-rich lithofacies and four organic-poor lithofacies. The 3D lithofacies model is very helpful to determine geologic and engineering sweet spots, and consequently useful for designing horizontal well trajectories and stimulation strategies. The NeuroEvolution of Augmenting Topologies (NEAT) is relatively new idea in the design of neural networks, and shed light on classification (i.e., Marcellus Shale lithofacies prediction). We have successfully enhanced the capability and efficiency of NEAT in three aspects. First, we introduced two new attributes of node gene, the node location and recurrent connection (RCC), to increase the calculation efficiency. Second, we evolved the population size from an initial small value to big, instead of using the constant value, which saves time and computer memory, especially for complex learning tasks. Third, in multiclass pattern recognition problems, we combined feature selection of input variables and modular neural network to automatically select input variables and optimize network topology for each binary classifier. These improvements were tested and verified by true if an odd number of its arguments are true and false otherwise (XOR) experiments, and were powerful for classification. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
With the commissioning year of the Large Sky Area Multi-Object Fibre Spectroscopic Telescope (LAMOST), the data archive of one-dimensional spectra is being released gradually. Searching for special objects like cataclysmic variables (CVs) in the data is one of LAMOST's objectives. This paper presents a novel method to identify CVs from optical spectra by using the support-vector machine (SVM) technique combined with principal-component analysis (PCA). After dimension reduction and feature extraction by PCA, spectral data are classified by SVM and most non-CVs are excluded. The final reduced list can be identified manually or by a template-matching algorithm. Experiments show that this data-mining method can find CVs from the LAMOST data base in an effective and efficient manner. We report the identification of 10 cataclysmic variables, of which two are new discoveries. In addition, this method is also applicable to mining other special celestial objects in sky-survey telescope data.
In this paper, a new iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is developed to solve optimal control problems for infinite-horizon discrete-time nonlinear systems with finite approximation errors. The idea is to use an iterative ADP algorithm to obtain the iterative control law that makes the iterative performance index function reach the optimum. When the iterative control law and the iterative performance index function in each iteration cannot be accurately obtained, the convergence conditions of the iterative ADP algorithm are obtained. When convergence conditions are satisfied, it is shown that the iterative performance index functions can converge to a finite neighborhood of the greatest lower bound of all performance index functions under some mild assumptions. Neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function and compute the optimal control policy, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the iterative ADP algorithm. Finally, two simulation examples are given to illustrate the performance of the present method.
An algorithm of hyperspectral remote sensing images classification is proposed based on the frequency spectrum of spectral signature. The spectral signature of each pixel in the hyperspectral image is taken as a discrete signal, and the frequency spectrum is obtained using discrete Fourier transform. The discrepancy of frequency spectrum between ground objects' spectral signatures is visible, thus the difference between frequency spectra of reference and target spectral signature is used to measure the spectral similarity. Canberra distance is introduced to increase the contribution from higher frequency components. Then, the number of harmonics involved in the proposed algorithm is determined after analyzing the frequency spectrum energy cumulative distribution function of ground object. In order to evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithm, two hyperspectral remote sensing images are adopted as experimental data. The proposed algorithm is compared with spectral angle mapper (SAM), spectral information divergence (SID) and Euclidean distance (ED) using the product accuracy, user accuracy, overall accuracy, average accuracy and Kappa coefficient. The results show that the proposed algorithm can be applied to hyperspectral image classification effectively.
In this paper, we study the incremental stability of stochastic hybrid systems, based on the contraction theory, and derive sufficient conditions of global stability for such systems. As a special case, the conditions to ensure the second moment exponential stability which is also called exponential stability in the mean square of stochastic hybrid systems are obtained. The theoretical results in this paper extend previous works from deterministic or stochastic systems to general stochastic hybrid systems, which can be applied to qualitative and quantitative analysis of many physical and biological phenomena. An illustrative example is given to show the effectiveness of our results. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
We present a multi-wavelength study of a 3.6 mu m selected galaxy sample in the Extended Groth Strip (EGS). The sample is complete for galaxies with stellar mass >10(9.5) M-circle dot and redshift 0.4 < z < 1.2. In this redshift range, the Infrared Array Camera 3.6 mu m band measures the rest-frame near-infrared band, permitting nearly unbiased selection with respect to both quiescent and star-forming galaxies. The numerous spectroscopic redshifts available in the EGS are used to train an artificial neural network to estimate photometric redshifts. The distribution of photometric redshift errors is Gaussian with standard deviation similar to 0.025(1 + z), and the fraction of redshift failures (>3 sigma errors) is about 3.5%. A new method of validation based on pair statistics confirms the estimate of standard deviation even for galaxies lacking spectroscopic redshifts. Basic galaxy properties measured include rest-frame U - B colors, B- and K-band absolute magnitudes, and stellar masses. We divide the sample into quiescent and star-forming galaxies according to their rest-frame U - B colors and 24-3.6 mu m flux density ratios and derive rest K-band luminosity functions and stellar mass functions for quiescent, star-forming, and all galaxies. The results show that massive, quiescent galaxies were in place by z approximate to 1, but lower mass galaxies generally ceased their star formation at later epochs.
Simultaneous localization and consistent mapping in dynamic environments is a fundamental and unsolved problem in the mobile robotics community. Most of the algorithms for this problem heavily rely on discriminating dynamic objects from static objects. Because these recursive filters based discrimination algorithms always have lag before the model selection parameters converge to the steady states, they have a period of time that the filter could identify a dynamic target as static or vice versa. Mis-classifications decrease precision and consistence, and induce filter divergence.
The biodiversity of macrozooplankton and physicochemical indices at eight sites in the Wenyuhe River Basin were analyzed from April 2010 to March 2011 to assess the water quality following construction of a wetland (CW). The association between biodiversity and physicochemical parameters was analyzed using a self-organizing map (SOM). The water quality in the upstream portion of the CW showed no overall improvement during this period based on biodiversity (H') and physicochemical assessment (Pb/n). Both assessments indicated that the water quality in upstream of CW was partially improved and showed an evident time dependent relationship after CW. Although a sample site, which received water from two streams, showed higher biodiversity in an integrative manner, the physicochemical assessments were more heavily influenced by treated water from the Qinghe Sewage Treatment Plant, rather than upstream at the other river basin. This was a noteworthy demonstration that physicochemical and biological assessments were not in accord and addressed the separate functioning of river ecosystems under field conditions. Physicochemical assessment may represent water quality more conservatively with respect to drinking water maintenance than biodiversity assessment. Nitrogen pollution was the main cause for the decrease in physicochemical conditions. Overall, the results indicated that the association between biodiversity and physicochemical assessments determined from the SOM could reveal aquatic ecosystem quality in a comprehensive manner and therefore be a useful tool for defining water quality and ecological integrity in aquatic ecosystem management, especially for complex water environments. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: White matter abnormalities can cause network dysfunction that underlies major depressive disorder (MDD). Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is used to examine the neural connectivity and integrity of the white matter. Previous studies have implicated frontolimbic neural networks in the pathophysiology of MDD. Approximately 30% of MDD patients demonstrate treatment-resistant depression (TRD). However, the neurobiology of TRD remains unclear.
One of the principal goals in medicine is to determine and implement the best treatment for patients through fastidious estimation of the effects and benefits of therapeutic procedures. The inherent complexities of physiological and pathological networks that span across orders of magnitude in time and length scales, however, represent fundamental hurdles in determining effective treatments for patients. Here we argue for a new approach, called the ACP-based approach, that combines artificial (societies), computational (experiments), and parallel (execution) methods in intelligent systems and technology for integrative and predictive medicine, or more generally, precision medicine and smart health management. The advent of artificial societies that collect the clinically relevant information in prognostics and therapeutics provides a promising platform for organizing and experimenting complex physiological systems toward integrative medicine. The ability of computational experiments to analyze distinct, interactive systems such as the host mechanisms, pathological pathways, and therapeutic strategies, as well as other factors using the artificial systems, will enable control and management through parallel execution of real and arficial systems concurrently within the integrative medicine context. The development of this framework in integrative medicine, fueled by close collaborations between physicians, engineers, and scientists, will result in preventive and predictive practices of a personal, proactive, and precise nature, including rational combinatorial treatments, adaptive therapeutics, and patient-oriented disease management.
In this paper, multi-agent systems minimizing a sum of objective functions, where each component is only known to a particular node, is considered for continuous-time dynamics with time-varying interconnection topologies. Assuming that each node can observe a convex solution set of its optimization component, and the intersection of all such sets is nonempty, the considered optimization problem is converted to an intersection computation problem. By a simple distributed control rule, the considered multi-agent system with continuous-time dynamics achieves not only a consensus, but also an optimal agreement within the optimal solution set of the overall optimization objective. Directed and bidirectional communications are studied, respectively, and connectivity conditions are given to ensure a global optimal consensus. In this way, the corresponding intersection computation problem is solved by the proposed decentralized continuous-time algorithm. We establish several important properties of the distance functions with respect to the global optimal solution set and a class of invariant sets with the help of convex and non-smooth analysis.
Continuous measurements of surface ozone (O-3) and nitrogen oxides (NOX) at an urban site (39 degrees 37'N, 118 degrees 09'E) in Tangshan, the largest heavy industry city of North China during summertime from 2008 to 2011 are presented. The pollution of O3 was serious in the city. The daily maximum 1 h means (O3_1-hr (max)) reached 157 +/- 55, 161 +/- 54, 120 +/- 50, and 178 +/- 75 mu g/m(3) corresponding to an excess over the standard rates of 21%, 27%, 10%, and 40% in 2008-2011, respectively. The total oxidant level (O-X = O-3 + NO2) was high, with seasonal average concentrations up to 100 mu g/m(3) in summer. The level of OX at a given location was made up of NOX-independent and NOX-dependent contributions. The independent part can be considered as a regional contribution and was about 100 mu g/m(3) in Tangshan. Statistical early warning analysis revealed that the O3 levels would exceed the standard rate by 50% on the day following a day when the daily average ozone concentration (O-3_mean) exceeded 87 mu g/m(3) and the daily maximum temperature
Knowledge of the mechanism of HIV protease cleavage specificity is critical to the design of specific and effective HIV inhibitors. Searching for an accurate, robust, and rapid method to correctly predict the cleavage sites in proteins is crucial when searching for possible HIV inhibitors. In this article, HIV-1 protease specificity was studied using the correlation-based feature subset (CfsSubset) selection method combined with Genetic Algorithms method. Thirty important biochemical features were found based on a jackknife test from the original data set containing 4,248 features. By using the AdaBoost method with the thirty selected features the prediction model yields an accuracy of 96.7% for the jack-knife test and 92.1% for an independent set test, with increased accuracy over the original dataset by 6.7% and 77.4%, respectively. Our feature selection scheme could be a useful technique for finding effective competitive inhibitors of HIV protease.
Insight problem solving is characterized by mental impasses, states of mind in which the problem solver does not know what to do next. Although many studies have investigated the neural correlates of insight problem solving, however, the question when mental impasses occur during insight problem solving has been rarely studied. The present study adopted high temporal resolution ERPs to investigate the temporal dynamics of an impasse underlying insight problem solving. Time locked ERPs were recorded associated with problems with impasses (PWI) and problems without impasses (POI). The problem types were determined by participants' subjective responses. The results revealed an early frontocentral P2 was linked with the preconscious awareness of mental impasses and a P3a was associated with fixed attention when the impasse formed. These findings suggest the impasse may occur initially at a relatively early stage and metacognition plays an important role in insight problem solving.
This article presents a strategy for identifying the source location of a chemical plume in near-shore oceanic environments where the plume is developed under the influence of turbulence, tides and waves. This strategy includes two modules: source declaration (or identification) and source verification embedded in a subsumption architecture. Algorithms for source identification are derived from the moth-inspired plume tracing strategies based on a chemical sensor. The in-water test missions, conducted in November 2002 at San Clemente Island (California, USA) in June 2003 in Duck (North Carolina, USA) and in October 2010 at Dalian Bay (China), successfully identified the source locations after autonomous underwater vehicles tracked the rhodamine dye plumes with a significant meander over 100 meters. The objective of the verification module is to verify the declared plume source using a visual sensor. Because images taken in near shore oceanic environments are very vague and colors in the images are not well-defined, we adopt a fuzzy color extractor to segment the color components and recognize the chemical plume and its source by measuring color similarity. The source verification module is tested by images taken during the CPT missions.
The aim of this paper is to develop an individual neural network generation and ensemble algorithm based on quotient space granularity clustering. Firstly, we give the characteristics of the quotient space granularity and affinity propagation(AP) clustering. Secondly, we introduce the quotient space concept to the AP clustering analysis, which can find an optimal granularity from all possible granularities. Then using improved AP clustering algorithm to seek optimal results of sample clustering and using different individual neural network to learn different categories of samples so that the degree of difference between networks and the generalization ability of neural network ensemble(NNE) can be improved. Further, according to the degree of correlation between the input data and the sample category to adaptively adjust ensemble weights. The algorithm proposed here is not only a method of generating the individual neural networks, but also can adaptively adjust ensemble weights of individual neural network. Experiments show that our proposed method is validity and correctness.
Effective extraction of data association rules can provide a reliable basis for classification of stellar spectra. The concept of stellar spectrum weighted itemsets and stellar spectrum weighted association rules are introduced, and the weight of a single property in the stellar spectrum is determined by information entropy. On that basis, a method is presented to mine the association rules of a stellar spectrum based on the weighted frequent pattern tree. Important properties of the spectral line are highlighted using this method. At the same time, the waveform of the whole spectrum is taken into account. The experimental results show that the data association rules of a stellar spectrum mined with this method are consistent with the main features of stellar spectral types.
In this paper, the wavelet transform methods were briefly introduced, and present researches and applications of them in hydrology were summarized and reviewed from six aspects. They include the wavelet aided multi-temporal scale analysis of hydrologic time series, wavelet aided deterministic component identification in hydrologic time series, wavelet aided de-noising of hydrologic time series, wavelet aided complexity quantification of hydrologic time series, wavelet cross-correlation analysis of hydrologic time series, and wavelet aided hydrologic time series simulation and forecasting. Finally, several personal opinions on the possible future researches of wavelet transform and its applications in hydrology were given from three aspects: methodical researches, further applications and combination. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Water quality assessment provides a scientific basis for water resources development and management. This case study proposes a Factor analysis-Hopfield neural network model (FHNN) based on factor analysis method and Hopfield neural network method. The results showed that the factor analysis (FA) technique was introduced to identify important water quality parameters. Results revealed that biochemical oxygen demand, permanganate index, ammonia nitrogen, nitrogen, Cu, Zn and Pb were the most important parameters in assessing water quality variations of the study area. Considering these parameters, water samples of the sampling sites were classified as follows: six into Class III, eight into Class IV, and six into Class V. Afterwards, a water quality map was based on the results of water quality assessment by Factor analysis-Hopfield neural network model. It showed that the southwestern part of the study area had a generally optimum water quality, while in the northeastern part, the quality was seriously degraded. Factor Analysis-Hopfield Neural Network was much better than the Hopfield Neural Network in effectively reducing the degree of Hopfield neural network over-fitting caused by the inputs, thereby achieving more reasonable results. The comparisons with BPANN, fuzzy assessment method, and the Nemerow index method indicated that the FHNN model provided more reliable judgment and valuable information than the three other water quality classification methods.
This paper presents a class of recurrent neural networks to solve quadratic programming problems. Different from most existing recurrent neural networks for solving quadratic programming problems, the proposed neural network model converges in finite time and the activation function is not required to be a hard-limiting function for finite convergence time. The stability, finite-time convergence property and the optimality of the proposed neural network for solving the original quadratic programming problem are proven in theory. Extensive simulations are performed to evaluate the performance of the neural network with different parameters. In addition, the proposed neural network is applied to solving the k-winner-take-all (k-WTA) problem. Both theoretical analysis and numerical simulations validate the effectiveness of our method for solving the k-WTA problem. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A growing number of investigations on uncertainty quantification for hydrological models have been widely reported in past years. However, limited studies are found on uncertainty assessment in simulating streamflow extremes so far. This article presents an intercomparison of uncertainty assessment of three different well-known hydrological models in simulating extreme streamflows using the approach of generalized likelihood uncertainty estimation (GLUE). Results indicate that: (1) The three modified hydrological models can reproduce daily streamflow series with acceptable accuracy. When the threshold value used to select behavioral parameter sets is 0.7, XAJ model generates the best GLUE estimates in simulating daily flows. However, the percentage of observations contained in the calculated 95 % confidence intervals (P-95CI) is low (< 50 %) when simulating the high-flow index (Q10). (2) Decreasing average relative length (ARIL), P-95CI and increasing average asymmetry degree (AAD) are found, when the threshold value increases for both daily-flows and high-flows. However, there is a significant inconsistence between sensitivity of daily-flows and high-flows to various threshold values of the likelihood function. Uncertainty sources from parameter sets, model structure and inputs collectively accounts for above sensitivity. (3) The best hydrological model in simulating daily-flows is not identical under different threshold values. High P-95CIs of GLUE estimate for high-flows (Q10 and Q25) indicate that TOPMODEL generally performs best under different threshold values, while XAJ model produces the smallest ARIL under different threshold values. The results are expected to contribute toward knowledge improvement on uncertainty behaviors in simulating streamflow extremes by a variety of hydrological models.
The extreme learning machine (ELM) is a novel single hidden layer feedforward neural network, which has the superiority in many aspects, especially in the training speed; however, there are still some shortages that restrict the further development of ELM, such as the perturbation and multicollinearity in the linear model. To the adverse effects caused by the perturbation or the multicollinearity, this paper proposes an enhanced ELM based on ridge regression (RR-ELM) for regression, which replaces the least square method to calculate output weights. With an additional adjustment of ridge regression, all the characteristics become even better. Simulative results show that the RR-ELM, compared with ELM, has better stability and generalization performance.
Termination is an essential part of program correctness. For a class of regular programs, both automatically proving termination and constructing witnesses of nontermination are significant in theoretical computer science. Many traditional theorem-proving methods for analyzing termination are based on Presburger arithmetic or linear programming, so they are valid only for restricted linear problems. On the contrary, some newly-emerged algebraic methods are suitable for polynomial problems, and are promising in deciding termination of polynomial programs. In this paper, we investigate a large class of imperative programs, called solvable loops, whose guards are general polynomials and assignments are special polynomial mappings. We then propose some sufficient criteria for proving termination and nontermination of such loops in parallel. These criteria can further be translated to the quantifier elimination problem over the reals, and hence are computable. Finally, feasible sample points in the process for inferring nontermination are eventually nonterminating inputs, which can be used to generate witnesses of nontermination. Our decision procedure uses symbolic computation and is mechanically implementable in spite of considerably high complexity. Thereby a series of strong and exact results are established in analyzing termination of loops. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a new sparse principal component analysis (SPCA) method, called DCPCA (sparse PCA using a difference convex program), is introduced as a spectral feature extraction technique in astronomical data processing. Using this method, we successfully derive the feature lines from the spectra of cataclysmic variables. We then apply this algorithm to get the first 11 sparse principal components and use the support vector machine (SVM) to classify. The results show that the proposed method is comparable with traditional methods such as PCA+SVM.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is responsible for executive functions, including planning, goal setting, problem solving, inhibitory control, monitoring, and action adjusting. Executive functions also include selective attention and the flexibility or switching of attention; therefore, attention is an executive function in which the PFC participates. Working memory (WM), which is the temporary maintenance and processing of particular information, is usually considered to be a basic neural mechanism underlying the executive functions. This review systematically discusses the relationship between the prefrontal WM and attention and emphasizes two forms of prefrontal attention. The first form occurs in the dlPFC, which encodes the location of objects with respect to the position of the head, thereby providing a frame of reference from which the focus of attention can be centered. The second occurs in the inferior convexity of the prefrontal cortex (IFC), which encodes the different attributes (shape, texture, color) of objects to enable the ability to focus on one or to switch attention between sensory attributes of objects.
Long-term global data sets of vegetation Leaf Area Index (LAI) and Fraction of Photosynthetically Active Radiation absorbed by vegetation (FPAR) are critical to monitoring global vegetation dynamics and for modeling exchanges of energy, mass and momentum between the land surface and planetary boundary layer. LAI and FPAR are also state variables in hydrological, ecological, biogeochemical and crop-yield models. The generation, evaluation and an example case study documenting the utility of 30-year long data sets of LAI and FPAR are described in this article. A neural network algorithm was first developed between the new improved third generation Global Inventory Modeling and Mapping Studies (GIMMS) Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI3g) and best-quality Terra Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) LAI and FPAR products for the overlapping period 2000-2009. The trained neural network algorithm was then used to generate corresponding LAI3g and FPAR3g data sets with the following attributes: 15-day temporal frequency, 1/12 degree spatial resolution and temporal span of July 1981 to December 2011. The quality of these data sets for scientific research in other disciplines was assessed through (a) comparisons with field measurements scaled to the spatial resolution of the data products, (b) comparisons with broadly-used existing alternate satellite data-based products, (c) comparisons to plant growth limiting climatic variables in the northern latitudes and tropical regions, and (d) correlations of dominant modes of interannual variability with large-scale circulation anomalies such as the El Nino-Southern Oscillation and Arctic Oscillation. These assessment efforts yielded results that attested to the suitability of these data sets for research use in other disciplines. The utility of these data sets is documented by comparing the seasonal profiles of LAI3g with profiles from 18 state-of-the-art Earth System Models: the models consistently overestimated the satellite-based estimates of leaf area and simulated delayed peak seasonal values in the northern latitudes, a result that is consistent with previous evaluations of similar models with ground-based data. The LAI3g and FPAR3g data sets can be obtained freely from the NASA Earth Exchange (NEX) website.
Accurate heat rate forecasting is very important in ensuring the economic, efficient, and safe operation of a steam turbine unit. The support vector machine (SVM) is a novel tool from the artificial intelligence field that has been successfully applied to heat rate forecasting. The least squares SVM (LS-SVM) is an improved algorithm based on the SVM. LS-SVM has minimal computational complexity and fast calculation. However, traditional LS-SVM, which was established by using offline data samples, can no longer accurately describe the actual system working condition, thereby resulting in problems when directly used in heat rate prediction. In this paper, a heat rate forecasting method based on online LS-SVM, which possesses dynamic prediction functions, is proposed. To avoid blindness and inaccuracy in parameter selection, the gravitational search algorithm (GSA) is used to optimize the regularization parameter gamma and the kernel parameter sigma(2) of the online LS-SVM modeling. The results confirm the efficiency of the proposed method. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper aims at further investigating the finite-time distributed tracking control problems for multi-agent systems with a virtual leader under the conditions of fixed and switching topologies, respectively. Two continuous distributed tracking protocols are designed for tracking the virtual leader in finite time. Compared with the traditional distributed tracking protocols, the proposed distributed tracking protocols can reach consensus in finite time. In particular, to eliminate the chattering phenomenon occurred in non-Lipschitz dynamical systems, this paper introduces a saturation function to replace the original sign function in the proposed distributed tracking protocols. The improved protocols can guide all agents to track the virtual leader without chattering phenomenon in finite time for the same position. Numerical simulations are also given to validate the proposed distributed tracking protocols.
This paper investigates the problem of consensus tracking control for second-order multi-agent systems in the presence of uncertain dynamics and bounded external disturbances. The communication ?ow among neighbor agents is described by an undirected connected graph. A fast terminal sliding manifold based on lumped state errors that include absolute and relative state errors is proposed, and then a distributed finite-time consensus tracking controller is developed by using terminal sliding mode and Chebyshev neural networks. In the proposed control scheme, Chebyshev neural networks are used as universal approximators to learn unknown nonlinear functions in the agent dynamics online, and a robust control term using the hyperbolic tangent function is applied to counteract neural-network approximation errors and external disturbances, which makes the proposed controller be continuous and hence chattering-free. Meanwhile, a smooth projection algorithm is employed to guarantee that estimated parameters remain within some known bounded sets. Furthermore, the proposed control scheme for each agent only employs the information of its neighbor agents and guarantees a group of agents to track a time-varying reference trajectory even when the reference signals are available to only a subset of the group members. Most importantly, finite-time stability in both the reaching phase and the sliding phase is guaranteed by a Lyapunov-based approach. Finally, numerical simulations are presented to demonstrate the performance of the proposed controller and show that the proposed controller exceeds to a linear hyperplane-based sliding mode controller. Copyright (C) 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
In this paper, a novel neural-network-based iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is proposed. It aims at solving the optimal control problem of a class of nonlinear discrete-time systems with control constraints. By introducing a generalized nonquadratic functional, the iterative ADP algorithm through globalized dual heuristic programming technique is developed to design optimal controller with convergence analysis. Three neural networks are constructed as parametric structures to facilitate the implementation of the iterative algorithm. They are used for approximating at each iteration the cost function, the optimal control law, and the controlled nonlinear discrete-time system, respectively. A simulation example is also provided to verify the effectiveness of the control scheme in solving the constrained optimal control problem.
Load frequency control (LFC) is one of the most profitable ancillary services of power systems. Governor dead band (GDB) nonlinearity is able to deteriorate the LFC performance. In this paper, controller design via a neural sliding-mode method is investigated for the LFC problem of power systems with GDB. Power systems are made up of areas. In each area, a sliding-mode LFC controller is designed by introducing an additional sate, and a RBF neural network is utilized to compensate the GDB nonlinearity of the area. Weight update formula of the RBF network is derived from Lyapunov direct method. By this scheme, not only the update formula is obtained, but also the control system possesses the asymptotic stability. Simulation results illustrate the feasibility and robustness of the presented approach for the LFC problems of single-area and multi-area power systems.
Usually, probabilistic automata and probabilistic grammars have crisp symbols as inputs, which can be viewed as the formal models of computing with values. In this paper, we first introduce probabilistic automata and probabilistic grammars for computing with (some special) words, where the words are interpreted as probabilistic distributions or possibility distributions over a set of crisp symbols. By probabilistic conditioning, we then establish a retraction principle from computing with words to computing with values for handling crisp inputs and a generalized extension principle from computing with words to computing with all words for handling arbitrary inputs. These principles show that computing with values and computing with all words can be respectively implemented by computing with some special words. To compare the transition probabilities of two near inputs, we also examine some analytical properties of the transition probability, functions of generalized extensions. Moreover, the retractions and the generalized extensions are shown to be equivalence-preserving. Finally, we clarify some relationships among the retractions, the generalized extensions, and the extensions studied by Qiu and Wang. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
We present a novel vision servoing method, which is fit for climbing robots and those in unstructured environments, based on texture analysis. A large textured area is the target for observation. After the definition of texture element distribution density, the relationship between the change of the density at some selected points and the camera pose is deduced. The vision servoing control law, which meets the requirement of Lyapunov stability is designed in this paper. Experiments show the effectiveness of this method.
In this paper, distributed leaderfollower control algorithms are presented for linear multi-agent systems based on output regulation theory and internal model principle. By treating a leader to be followed as an exosystem, the proposed framework can be used to generalize existing multi-agent coordination solutions to allow the identical agents to track an active leader with different dynamics and unmeasurable variables. Moreover, the obtained results for multi-agent coordination control are an extension of previous work on centralized and decentralized output regulation to a distributed control context. Necessary and sufficient conditions for the distributed output regulation problem are given. Finally, distributed output regulation of some classes of multi-agent systems with switching interconnection topologies are discussed via both static and dynamic feedback. Copyright (c) 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Comprehensive integrated research on ecological and hydrological processes and the simulation of river basin environments are critical foundations for decision making by governments and river-basin managers. The demand for a holistic understanding of environmental systems such as river basins is increasing. Eco-hydrological research needs two types of monitoring platforms to access and collect data from basins: a modeling platform to support access, select, and run models online, and build new models with the collected data; and a manipulation platform to generate forcing data, run models, and visualize the results. Consequently, we developed an escience environment framework comprising three platforms - a monitoring platform, a model platform, and a manipulation platform. The framework allows automatic data transmission, storage, management, analysis, model management, simulation, computing, and result visualization. The e-science environment integrates land surface models such as Simplified Simple Biosphere model, the Revised Simple Biosphere model and WRF, hydrological models such as SWAT and TOPMODEL, data assimilation filters including such as Kalman filter algorithm, and several tools and methods for dealing with data, principally artificial neural networks and Markov chains. We demonstrate the application of the framework that uses an SSIB land surface model ensemble Kalman filter to improve evapotranspiration, soil moisture, and ground temperature simulation in the Heihe inland river basin. The approach proves suitable for environmental simulation for inland river research.
It has been 20 years since the research scheme of intelligence of rock mechanics was proposed in 1993, based on the encouraging achievements on investigation of artificial intelligence and expert system and its application to rock mechanics and engineering problems started from 1986. The past 20 years have seen enormous progress in the development of the new direction-intelligent rock mechanics (IRM) as proposed thereafter in 1997 (Feng et al., 1997), both in basic theories, fundamental techniques, algorithms and tools and applications. Even at present, the methodology of IRM has been added as a complementary standard for rock engineering design (Feng & Hudson, 2011). The aim of this work is to quickly review the past 20 years of research and work in the field. It covers some of the most important methods that have been developed, with a focus on the applications to some of the most complicated rock engineering problems constructed in China during the last decade.
This paper presents a switched stabilization method of discrete interval type-2 fuzzy systems via sum-of-squares (SOS). Based on polynomial Lyapunov functions, we derive stabilization conditions to design stable polynomial interval type-2 fuzzy switched controllers. The stabilization conditions are represented in terms of SOS, and the controllers are numerically (partially symbolically) solved via the recent developed SOSTOOLS. In addition, polynomial discrete fuzzy systems and controllers are the generalization of discrete Takagi-Sugeno (T-S) fuzzy systems and controllers. A numerical simulation example is provided to illustrate the validity of the control method.
In contact operations, haptic information plays a very important role on compensating the limitation of visual information. Therefore, there is growing interests in the application of force feedback to improve the perception of the operators in virtual training systems. Based on the analysis on the load of the force feedback system, a gain-scheduling fuzzy proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller is proposed to deal with the issues about position-force control in the training system with guiding force. The experiment results showed that, users can perform the training through moving along the predesigned trajectories under the guidance of haptic feedback, while the jitter of the force feedback device was effectively suppressed during the training process. Thus, it is suggested that this proposed fuzzy-PID controller can be widely used in the force feedback training systems, such as rehabilitation robots and skill training systems in which the users have to maintain a proper moving path.
This paper proposes an updated prediction ARMA (autoregressive moving average) model for the disadvantage of traditional model that the future value forecasted by k-step ahead predictive model from time.. didn't include the newest information on time t+1 with the passage of time after a model was build. For this purpose, we adapt an approach of combining the ARMA model's difference equation form and transfer form (with Green's function) to achieve that new prediction value will calculate the change of the newest observation instead of reestablishing a new model. Furthermore, this method obtains higher forecasting accuracy and less computation. Finally we take an experiment on a time series sequence data to indicate the model's efficiency and effectiveness.
Aircraft detection is a difficult task in high-resolution remote sensing images, due to the variable sizes, colors, orientations and complex backgrounds. In this paper, an effective aircraft detection method is proposed which exactly locates the object by outputting its geometric center, orientation, position. To reduce the influence of background, multi-images including gradient image and gray thresholding images of the object were input to a Deep Belief Net (DBN), which was pre-trained first to learn features and later fine-tuned by back-propagation to yield a robust detector. Experimental results show that DBNs can detecte the tiny blurred aircrafts correctly in many difficult airport images, DBNs outperform the traditional Feature+Classifier methods in robustness and accuracy, and the multi-images help improve the detection precision of DBN than using only single-image.
Deep convolutional Neural Networks (DNN) is the state-of-the-art machine learning method. It has been used in many recognition tasks including handwritten digits, Chinese words and traffic signs, etc. However, training and test DNN are time-consuming tasks. In practical vehicle detection application, both speed and accuracy are required. So increasing the speeds of DNN while keeping its high accuracy has significant meaning for many recognition and detection applications. We introduce parallel branches into the DNN. The maps of the layers of DNN are divided into several parallel branches, each branch has the same number of maps. There are not direct connections between different branches. Our parallel DNN (PNN) keeps the same structure and dimensions of the DNN, reducing the total number of connections between maps. The more number of branches we divide, the more swift the speed of the PNN is, the conventional DNN becomes a special form of PNN which has only one branch. Experiments on large vehicle database showed that the detection accuracy of PNN dropped slightly with the speed increasing. Even the fastest PNN (10 times faster than DNN), whose branch has only two maps, fully outperformed the traditional methods based on features (such as HOG, LBP). In fact, PNN provides a good solution way for compromising the speed and accuracy requirements in many applications.
In order to compute the redundancy-resolution for robots with multi-constraints, an approximate method based on weighted least-norm principle is presented. With this method, different constraints is assigned with corresponding coefficients, and the cost function is given out and optimized for the best between the accuracy and the fulfillment of the constraint, which is based on the weighted least-norm of each constraints and the main task. Firstly, the state of the art of redundant resolution is introduced in brief and the drawback with the application to the resolution with multi-constraints is pointed out. Then the redundancy resolution at velocity level and position level, and the modeling of the constraints are proposed. In view of this, the weighted least-norm method is presented. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated by simulations of a six-DoFs biped walking robot Bibot-U6 with the stability constraint and joint limits constraints. The result shows that the method has an excellent robustness for the under-determined system and over-determined system, meanwhile has a good accuracy.
The wide application of service robot caused security problems between humans and robots. Through the theoretical analysis and mathematical formula based on the calculation. Designing a novel safe impedance joint mechanism consisting of an inclined link, a slider with rollers, and linear springs is proposed. Analysis the institutions of different friction between rollers and tilt links in the form of organization function at the same time. Using solidworks software to mechanism of 3D modeling, the design of two different partial CAM model, importing ADAMS software and analysis the function, Comparison between simulation data and experimental data consistency, for later used in robot mechanical arm to provide a theoretical basis.
In this paper, we proposed a new nonlinear tracking controller based on heuristic dynamic programming (HDP) with the tracking filter. Specifically, we integrate a goal network into the regular HDP design and provide the critic network with detailed internal reward signal to help the value function approximation. The architecture is explicitly explained with the tracking filter, goal network, critic network and action network, respectively. We provide the stability analysis of our proposed controller with Lyapunov approach. It is shown that the filtered tracking errors and the weights estimation errors in neural networks are all uniformly ultimately bounded (UUB) under certain conditions. Finally, we compare our proposed approach with regular HDP approach in virtual reality (VR)/Simulink environment to justify the improved control performance.
We develop a decentralized algorithm to coordinate a group of mobile robots to search for unknown and transient radio sources. In addition to limited mobility and ranges of communication and sensing, the robot team has to deal with challenges from signal source anonymity, short transmission duration, and variable transmission power. We propose a two-step approach: first, we decentralize belief functions that robots use to track source locations using checkpoint-based synchronization, and second, we propose a decentralized planning strategy to coordinate robots to ensure the existence of checkpoints. We analyze memory usage, data amount in communication, and searching time for the proposed algorithm. We have implemented the proposed algorithm and compared it with two heuristics. The experiment results show that our algorithm successfully trades a modest amount of memory for the fastest searching time among the three methods.
This paper introduces a novel tracking framework for robots that can adapt various appearance changes of object and also owns the ability of reacquisition after drift. Two classifiers, LaRank and Online Random Ferns, are adopted to realize this tracking algorithm. The former one maintains the adaptive tracking using a Condensation-based method with an online support vector machine (SVM) as observation model, which also provides the reliable image patch samples to detector for updating. The other one is in charge of the task of detection in order to redetect the object when the target drifts. We also present a refinement strategy to improve the tracker's performance by discarding the support vector corresponding to possible wrong updates by a matching template after re-initialization. The experiments on benchmark dataset compare our tracking method with several other state-of-the-art algorithms, demonstrating a promising performance of the proposed framework.
In this paper, a novel adaptive optimal control approach based on Q-function is proposed to address the problem as the driving habits change among drivers and over time in the adaptive cruise control system. The proposed approach, adopting the special structure Q-function of the linear discrete-time system, uses policy iteration method to derive the optimal control policy online. It repeats between policy evaluation where the polynomial neural network is employed to approximate the cost function of the system and policy improvement where the control policy is updated based on the converged neural network, until the optimal controller is achieved. Simulation is conducted and results show the effectiveness for uncertain driving habit problem in the adaptive cruise control system.
This paper is concerned with a new iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm to solve optimal control problems for infinite horizon discrete-time nonlinear systems using a numerical controller. The convergence conditions of the iterative ADP are developed considering the errors by the numerical controller which show that the iterative performance index functions can converge to the greatest lower bound of all performance indices within a finite error bound. Neural networks and digital computer are used to approximate the iterative performance index function and compute the numerically iterative control policy, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the iterative ADP algorithm. Finally, a simulation example is given to illustrate the performance of the present method.
With the more robots, the information interaction of multi-robot system becomes more sophisticated and important in a community perception network environment. By exploiting and fusing the learning information of robots in a perception community, the community information sharing mechanism is proposed, as well as updating rules of the community Q-value table. Moreover, considering the existence of delays of learning information transmission, an improved Q-learning method based on homogeneous delays is presented to improve the robot learning efficiency over the community perception network. Finally, the test experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
In recent years, deep neural networks achieve significant improvements in automatic speech recognition. In this paper, we propose a deep structure used for robust ASR. The model has several partially connected layers which can suppress noise in different frequency bands. In order to recognize the speech data which has been distorted by noise seriously, we try to use parts of their frequency bands with a mixed-bandwidth model. The results have shown that the partially connected network could suppress noises in different frequency bands properly. The model's phone recognition on TIMIT corpus outperforms the state-of-the-art DNN model.
The vision system of a mobile robot has to interpret the environment in real time at low power. As a good algorithm for extracting information from images, SIFT (Scale Invariant Feature Transform) is widely used in computer vision. However, the high computational complexity makes it hard to achieve real-time performance of SIFT with pure software. This paper presents a machine vision system implementing the SIFT algorithm on an embedded image processing card, where real-time scene recognition is accomplished with low power consumption through the cooperation between an FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array) and a DSP (Digital Signal Processor) chip. The original SIFT keypoint detection algorithm is adapted for parallel computation and implemented with a hardware pipeline in the FPGA. Although our current system is designed for 360x288 video frames, this pipelined architecture can be applied to images with arbitrary resolution. Meanwhile, the original 128-dimensional SIFT descriptor is replaced by an 18-dimensional new descriptor which can be generated more efficiently and can be matched according to an absolute distance threshold with the distance defined by infinity-norm. On this basis, a five-branch-tree data structure is designed for fast searching and matching of descriptors, and robust scene recognition is realized through the combination of keypoints. Since our new descriptor allows one keypoint to be matched to several keypoints, which is a distinct property from the original SIFT algorithm, our system can recognize multiple images with overlapping contents simultaneously. In addition, compared with traditional work that needs off-line training, our system can perform fast on-line learning, which is a desirable property for mobile robots.
This paper simple introduced back propagation (BP) neural networks, and constructed a dynamic predict model, based on it to predict forest disease and insect and rat pest. Then it analyzed and simulated with the BP neural network model with the data produced in the recent ten years. The result indicated that the BP neural network model is reliable for predicting the forest disease and insect and rat pest. The method provides scientific foundation for the forestry management of studied area.
For energy management problems in smart grid, a hybrid intelligent hierarchical controller based on simulated annealing (SA) and reinforcement learning (RL) is proposed. The SA is used to adjust the parameters of the controller. The RL algorithm shows the particular superiority, which is independent of the mathematic model and just needs simple fuzzy information obtained through trial-and-error and interaction with the environment. By means of learning procedures, the proposed controller can learn to take the best actions to regulate the energy usage for equipments with the features of high comfortable for energy usage and low electric charge meanwhile. Simulation results show that the proposed load controller can promote the performance energy usage in smart grids.
Image-based road scene understanding is a critical issue for intelligent vehicles and autonomous mobile robots. It is challenging to deal with varying road conditions in a dynamic environment in real time. This paper presents an effective while simple approach to classify road types and locate the road-related elements through the analysis of a holistic visual road feature. The feature is abstracted from responses of Gabor-filter-set and grouped into super-pixel grids, consisting of road-scene textural context and dominant orientation distribution. From this feature we successively deduce the information of horizon line, road type and coarse locations of road surface, lanes, on-road obstacles and off-road regions. Experiments show that the proposed analyzing method based on the new holistic feature is beneficial to road estimation and vehicle detection in complex road scenes, achieving improvements in both accuracy and efficiency.
Consensus of the multi-agent systems (MASs) is ubiquitous in nature. Over the past decade, consensus of the MASs has received an increasing attention from various disciplines. Inspired by the cluster consensus of the discrete-time MAS, this paper aims at exploring the cluster consensus of the Boolean MAS and applies it to modeling the synchronous flashing of fireflies. Based on the graph theory and the Boolean matrix analysis, two cluster consensus criteria are established for the Boolean MASs with fixed and switching topologies. Furthermore, numerical simulations are also given to validate the effectiveness of these proposed criteria.
In this paper, we consider the distributed consensus of high-dimensional first-order agents with relative-state-dependent measurement noises. Each agent can measure or receive its neighbors' state information with random noises, whose intensity is a nonlinear matrix-valued function of agents' relative states. By the tools of stochastic differential equations and algebraic graph theory, we give sufficient conditions to ensure mean square and almost sure consensus and the convergence rate and the steady-state error for average consensus are quantified.
This paper is concerned with the reinforcement learning methods for the discrete time descriptor systems. An algorithm, as well as its theoretical basis, is presented. The algorithm can generate the optimal controller for the target descriptor system only by the measured input and output data, with no need of the information about the system state and system matrices. The algorithm can work well not only when the system index is equal or less than one, but also can work well when the index is greater than one. Simulation indicates that the presented method can solve the optimal control problem well for descriptor systems when the system model is not exactly known, but the input and output data can be measured.
At present, the problems of urban traffic management and control have not yet been well solved, due to the great complexity of urban transportation systems. In this context, artificial transportation systems (ATS) theory was presented several years ago, and has been verified to be a promising approach to better management and control of complex transportation systems. On the basis of summarizing the research works on ATS to date, this paper systematically introduces the concept, theory frame and methods of ATS; meanwhile, the corresponding literatures are also reviewed. Then, as a major application approach of ATS, the parallel system theory is briefly introduced, and the major case studies of applying ATS are also reviewed. Finally, we analyze the current state-of-the-art of ATS, and point out the main research directions.
In this paper, we construct a feedforward neural network (NN) based system containing two NNs. The convergence of the NN based system is analyzed in detail. For setting up the NN based system, an NN observer is first designed to estimate the system states. Then, based on the observed states, a feedforward neuro-control system is constructed by using adaptive dynamic programming (ADP). In this design, two NN structures are used: a three-layer feedforward NN to constitute the observer which can be applied to the systems with high degrees of nonlinearity and without a priori knowledge about system dynamics, and a critic NN to approximate the value function. Moreover, the weight update laws for the critic NN are generated using a gradient-descent method based on a modified temporal difference error, which is independent of the system dynamics. Finally, uniform ultimate boundedness (UUB) of the NN based system is proved.
This paper discusses the use of EDMA in real time image processing systems, high-resolution panoramic vision unfolding system based on TMS320DM642, which continuously update dynamic image data in ping-pong cache. And analyze the cache performance. The cache strategy is based on the channel chaining capability of the EDMA channel controller. Each EDMA transfer synchronized with another transfer. Then the CPU would continuously process the cached data and do not pay attention to any synchronization of each EDMA channel. This cache strategy can obtain the highest performance in DSP system.
In the past decade, granular computing (GrC) has been an active topic of research in machine learning and computer vision. However, the granularity division is itself an open and complex problem. Deep learning, at the same time, has been proposed by Geoffrey Hinton, which simulates the hierarchical structure of human brain, processes data from lower level to higher level and gradually composes more and more semantic concepts. The information similarity, proximity and functionality constitute the key points in the original insight of granular computing proposed by Zadeh. Many GrC researches are based on the equivalence relation or the more general tolerance relation, either of which can be described by some distance functions. The information similarity and proximity depended on the samples distribution can be easily described by the fuzzy logic. From this point of view, GrC can be considered as a set of fuzzy logical formulas, which is geometrically defined as a layered framework in a multi-scale granular system. The necessity of such kind multi-scale layered granular system can be supported by the columnar organization of the neocortex. So the granular system proposed in this paper can be viewed as a new explanation of deep learning that simulates the hierarchical structure of human brain. In view of this, a novel learning approach, which combines fuzzy logical designing with machine learning, is proposed in this paper to construct a GrC system to explore a novel direction for deep learning. Unlike those previous works on the theoretical framework of GrC, our granular system is abstracted from brain science and information science, so it can be used to guide the research of image processing and pattern recognition. Finally, we take the task of haze-free as an example to demonstrate that our multi-scale GrC has high ability to increase the texture information entropy and improve the effect of haze-removing.
Crowdsourcing is a distributed problem-solving and production model. It takes advantage of the internet technology, helps enterprises save cost and improve efficiency. However, uncertain quality is a significant challenge for crowdsourcing. On the basis of the existing literatures, this paper proposes 23 software quality factors from two aspects: platform and project. By using multiple regression analysis on the data of one of the most successful software crowdsourcing platforms TopCoder. com, this paper analyzes the impact of the factors on software quality and identifies six key factors, including the average quality score of the platform, the number of contemporary projects, the length of component document, the number of registered developers, the maximum rating of submitted developers, and the design score. According to the result, this paper suggests four aspects for enterprises to improve software quality: choosing the prosperous period of platform to post a project, reducing the scale of projects, attracting more and higher skillful developers to participate, and improving software design score.
With the development of unmanned helicopters, the dependability of helicopters have attracted more and more attention of many researchers. In order to deal with these problems, fault diagnosis and fault tolerant control methods were used for manned or unmanned helicopter platforms. This paper presents an overview of the existing works on fault diagnosis, including analytical/model-based, signal processing-based and knowledge-based techniques, and passive/active fault tolerant control approaches for helicopters mainly with single rotor. Before the main part of the review, a short description of fault classification is presented. Compared with the former work, this review contains some in-depth discussion of various fault diagnosis techniques and a survey for fault tolerant control methods.
In the past few years, deep neural networks (DNNs) achieved great successes in speech recognition. The layer-wise pre-trained deep belief network (DBN) is known as one of the critical factor to optimize the DNN. However, the DBN has one shortcoming that the pre-training procedure is in a greedy forward pass. The top-down influences on the inference process are ignored, thus the pre-trained DBN is suboptimal. In this paper, we attempt to apply deep Boltzmann machine (DBM) on acoustic modeling. DBM has the advantages that a top-down feedback is incorporated and the parameters of all layers can be jointly optimized. Experiments are conducted on the TIMIT phone recognition task to investigate the DBM-DNN acoustic model. Comparing with the DBN-DNN with same amount of parameters, phone error rate on the core test set is reduced by 3.8% relatively, and additional 5.1% by dropout fine-tuning.
The work by Hinton et al shows that the dropout strategy can greatly improve the performance of neural networks as well as reducing the influence of over-fitting. Nevertheless, there is still not a more detailed study on this strategy. In addition, the effectiveness of dropout on the task of LVCSR has not been analyzed. In this paper, we attempt to make a further discussion on the dropout strategy. The impacts on performance of different dropout probabilities for phone recognition task are experimented on TIMIT. To get an in-depth understanding of dropout, experiments of dropout testing are designed from the perspective of model averaging. The effectiveness of dropout is analyzed on a LVCSR task. Results show that the method of dropout fine-tuning combined with standard back-propagation gives significant performance improvements.
Research and Development (R&D) is a knowledge-intensive creative process. During the process of creativity, employees need to absorb knowledge from other persons. The characteristics of R&D employees' knowledge network do matter with their creativity. Up to now the relationship of knowledge network and creativity is still waiting to be exploited. Based on previous studies, this paper generates a theoretical model of knowledge network characteristics and R&D creativity. The main hypotheses are: (a) density of information sharing network contributes to R&D creativity; (b) density of problem solving network has no significant effect on R&D creativity; (c) strong ties to internet forums might enhance R&D creativity; (d) there will be significant relationship between knowledge network centrality and R&D creativity, but no such relationship between strong ties and creativity; (e) the interactive effect of knowledge network centrality and strong ties might positively affect R&D creativity.
Monitoring and warning of geological disasters accurately and in a timely fashion would dramatically mitigate casualties and economic losses. This paper takes Lanzhou city as an example and designs a Web-based system, namely the information system for geological disaster monitoring and warning (ISGDMW). Presented are its framework, key developing technologies, database, and working flow. The information system adopts a Browser/Server (B/S) structure and has three-tier architecture, combining in-situ monitoring instruments, the wireless sensor network, WebGIS techniques and the grey system theory. The framework of the ISGDMW can be divided into three categories: (1) in-situ monitoring system, it aims to monitor geological disaster sites and get state information of geological disaster sites; (2) database, manage in-situ monitoring data, antecedent field investigating data and basic data; (3) analyzing and warning system, analyze in-situ monitoring data, understand the deformation trend of the potential geological disaster, and release disaster warning information to the public. The ISGDMW allow the processes of geological disaster monitoring, in-situ monitoring data analysis, geological disaster warning to be implemented in an efficient and quick way, and can provide scientific suggestions to commanders for quick response to the possibility of geological disaster.
The path constraints are leaked by binary conditional jump instructions which are the binary representation of software's internal logic. Based on the problem of software's path constraints leaking, reverse engineering using path-sensitive techniques such as symbolic execution and theorem proving poses a new threat to software intellectual property protection. In order to mitigate path information leaking problem, this paper proposed a novel branch obfuscation scheme that uses binary code side effects to hide path constraints and takes advantage of remote trusted entity to protect software's control flow graph, without changing software's functionality. The experimental results show that this branch obfuscation technique could effectively protect software's path constraints against state-of-the-art reverse engineering, yet practical in terms of performance.
In order to increase the accuracy of serial-propagated long-range multi-step-ahead (MSA) prediction, which has high practical value but also great implementary difficulty because of huge error accumulation, a novel wavelet neural network hybrid model - CDW-NN - combining continuous and discrete wavelet transforms (CWT and DWT) and neural networks (NNs), is designed as the MSA predictor for the effective long-term forecast of hydrological signals. By the application of 12 types of hybrid and pure models in estuarine 1096-day river stages forecasting, the different forecast performances and the superiorities of CDW-NN model with corresponding driving mechanisms are discussed. One type of CDW-NN model, CDW-NF, which uses neuro-fuzzy as the forecast submodel, has been proven to be the most effective MSA predictor for the prominent accuracy enhancement during the overall 1096-day long-term forecasts. The special superiority of CDW-NF model lies in the CWT-based methodology, which determines the 15-day and 28-day prior data series as model inputs by revealing the significant short-time periodicities involved in estuarine river stage signals. Comparing the conventional single-step-ahead-based long-term forecast models, the CWT-based hybrid models broaden the prediction range in each forecast step from 1 day to 15 days, and thus reduce the overall forecasting iteration steps from 1096 steps to 74 steps and finally create significant decrease of error accumulations. In addition, combination of the advantages of DWT method and neuro-fuzzy system also benefits filtering the noisy dynamics in model inputs and enhancing the simulation and forecast ability for the complex hydro-system.
Articulated robots are the most common industrial robots for their large workspace and flexibility. However, the existence of joint flexibility makes those robots difficult to achieve high absolute position accuracy. This paper presents a method to identify the joint stiffness of the robot. The basic idea of that method is to get joint stiffness based on Hook's Law through stepping movement of a single joint and calculating the corresponding joint gravity torque of every step. The practicality of that method is verified by experiment and a plan is carried out to compensate the joint flexibility.
The research field of artificial intelligence (AI) has long abode by the top-down problem solving strategy. Yet, we have adopted bottom-up design thinking to solve its hard problems. To tackle end-to-end AI-hard problems, a highly self-adaptive control system-on-chip (SoC) has been developed to self-learn its internal and external resources with the aid of sets of sensors and actuators. Inspired by biological cell learning theory, different approaches of modelling techniques have been derived together with machine learning (ML) methods to the embedded control systems so as to perform different tasks. This paper lays out our developments of the above.
The recently increased interests in visual measurement and control applied to underwater robots have challenged the existing visual technologies that once were sufficient in ground-based applications. This paper surveys the major difficulties and representative applications in underwater visual measurement and control, most of which result from the particularity of the aquatic environments. Specifically, the state of the art of the underwater vision is summarized from different perspectives, primarily involving key points and existing problems. In particular, the application of the embedded vision-based system in the context of bionics is accented. Finally, the potential development trends and possible breakthroughs are discussed, shedding light on the effort both in hardware and software to advance real-world underwater vision applications.
The leader-following problem of first-order integral multi-agent systems with communication noises is investigated in this paper. To attenuate the noise's effect, a positive time-varying gain a(t) is employed in the protocol. It is proved that the proposed protocol can solve the mean square leader-following problem if the following conditions hold: 1) the communication topology graph has a spanning tree; 2) integral(infinity)(0) a(t)dt = infinity; 3) lim(t ->infinity) a(t) = 0. The requirements on a(t) are different from most existing papers, where a(t) is required to satisfy that integral(infinity)(0) a(t)dt = infinity and integral(infinity)(0) a(2)(t)dt < infinity. It turns out that integral(infinity)(0) a(2)(t)dt < infinity implies lim(t ->infinity) a(t) = 0, if a(t) is uniformly continuous. Therefore this paper relaxes the requirements on a(t) to some extent. In addition, under the mild condition (a(t) is uniformly continuous) these three conditions are necessary as well. Furthermore, integral(infinity)(0) a(2)(t)dt < infinity, the employed protocol is proved to be able to solve the almost sure leader-following problem of first-order integral multi-agent system. Finally, a simulation example is provided to verify the effectiveness of the employed protocols.
In this paper, the problem of distributed fault detection and isolation (FDI) for a class of multi-agent system is considered. A residual generator is designed by using a geometric approach. By defining the unobservablility subspace of the LPV multi-agent system, we design a set of residual generators which are sensitive to some actuator fault and decoupled from noise and other faults. Due to the fact that such residual generators only depend on the direction of the faults and noises and have nothing to do with the amplitudes of faults and noises, this method can be used to detect incipient faults, small faults and intermittent faults even with large noises. We bring forward a detailed algorithm to calculate the desired parameters. Finally, a simulation results on small satellites are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed distributed FDI algorithm.
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) origami [1] is expected to be a nanoscale functional block for Nano Electro Mechanical Systems (NEMS). It can be assembled on a substrate containing other MEMS components to realize a NEMS device in which nanostructures play an important role. We recently demonstrated a tapping mode atomic force microscopy (AFM) process that can manipulate DNA origami structures in liquid to desired positions with controlled orientations, which is a novel process that will eventually allow the constructions of complex nanostructures on substrate surfaces. The manipulation of DNA origami nanotubes with 6 nm in diameter and 400 nm in length placed on a mica substrate was executed by tapping mode AFM with 0-10 nm amplitude. The acting vertical force from the AFM tip to a DNA origami nanotube was calculated to be 25 - 30 nN numerically by using Simulink software (MathWorks). Experimental results shown that similar to 80% samples can be successfully manipulated if the tapping mode AFM tip amplitude is 3-4 nm.
Bad pixels and response non-uniformity are the primary obstacles when IRFPA is used in different thermal imaging systems. The bad pixels of IRFPA include fixed bad pixels and random bad pixels. The former is caused by material or manufacture defect and their positions are always fixed, the latter is caused by temperature drift and their positions are always changing. Traditional radiometric calibration-based bad pixel detection and compensation algorithm is only valid to the fixed bad pixels. Scene-based bad pixel correction algorithm is the effective way to eliminate these two kinds of bad pixels. Currently, the most used scene-based bad pixel correction algorithm is based on adaptive median filter (AMF). In this algorithm, bad pixels are regarded as image noise and then be replaced by filtered value. However, missed correction and false correction often happens when AMF is used to handle complex infrared scenes. To solve this problem, a new adaptive bad pixel correction algorithm based on pulse coupled neural networks (PCNN) is proposed. Potential bad pixels are detected by PCNN in the first step, then image sequences are used periodically to confirm the real bad pixels and exclude the false one, finally bad pixels are replaced by the filtered result. With the real infrared images obtained from a camera, the experiment results show the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.
Change detection of VHR (Very High Resolution) images is very difficult due to the impacts caused by the seasonal changes, the imaging condition, and so on. To address the above difficulty, a novel unsupervised change detection algorithm is proposed based on deep learning, where the complex correspondence between the images is established by Auto-encoder Model. By taking advantages of the powerful ability of deep learning in compensating the impacts implicitly, the multi-temporal images can be compared fairly. Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Due to illumination variation, view changes, and complex road conditions, automatic lane detection is crucial for path finding and planning for autonomous car-like robots. In this paper, a robust lane detection method is proposed. Firstly, in order to extract the edges of lanes in traffic scenarios, we adopt an adaptive thresholding strategy to binarize a gradient image and trace edges by using their local gradient information. Moreover, by integrating gradient constraints and introducing a reverse voting strategy to the standard Hough transform, we greatly improved speed and stability of line extraction. Further, through inverse perspective mapping the endpoints of extracted lines to the world coordination, we can combine the extracted lines from different cameras. Finally, the lane could be detected by matching two points instead of two parallel lines in parameter space. Extensive experiments and comparisons show the efficiency of the proposed method.
An optimal control scheme with prescribed performance for a class of affine nonlinear systems with control constraints is developed in this paper. Based on optimization theory and methods, a constrained optimization problem is formulated. Then, we develop an improved adaptive dynamic programming algorithm based on globalized dual heuristic programming technique to solve the optimal control problem. The validity of the present scheme is verified via simulation experiments by applying our method to a typical affine nonlinear system with nonlinear dead-zone control.
Aiming at resolving the defects of manual monitoring during the clinical transfusion process presently, this paper designs an intelligent transfusion monitoring system which uses TMS320F28335 as the microcontroller core. This system is a master-slave distributed architecture. The master station at the health care room can remotely monitor the transfusion process with the help of the application that operates on PC, whereas the slave station, a DSP embedded system, uses a miniature peristaltic pump driven by stepper motor to control the transfusion speed based on the fuzzy control algorithm. The master station can communicate with slave stations with wireless modules through the serial port, so nurses can timely monitor the transfusion process. The experimental results show that this system has advantages such as high accuracy of speed adjustment, quick response and low steady-state error. Because of the good performance and low cost, this system can be widely used in clinical transfusion and pharmaceutical composition analysis occasions.
In this paper, we propose a sparse reinforcement learning (RL) algorithm using factor graphs. The contribution is to make the original sparse RL algorithm applicable for tasks decomposed in a more general manner. For some problems, it is more reasonable to divide agents into cliques, each of which is responsible for its specific subtask. In this way, the global Q-value function is decomposed into the sum of simpler local Q-value functions, each of which may contain more than two action variables. Such decomposition can be expressed by a factor graph and exploited by the general max-plus algorithm to get the global greedy joint action. The experimental results show that our methodology is feasible and effective.
Signal CCD/CMOS sensors capture image information by covering the sensor surface with a color filter array(CFA). For each pixel, only one of three primary colors(red, green and blue) can pass through the color filter array(CFA). The other two missing color components are estimated by the values of the surrounding pixels. In Bayer array, the green components are half of the total pixels, but both red pixel and blue pixel components are quarter, so green components contain more information, which can be reference to color interpolation of red components and blue components. Based on this principle, in this paper, a simple and effective color interpolation algorithm based on green components and signal correlation for Bayer pattern images was proposed. The first step is to interpolate R, G and B components using the method-bilinear interpolation. The second step is to revise the results of bilinear interpolation by adding some green components on the results of bilinear interpolation. The calculation of the values to be added should consider the influence of correlation between the three channels. There are two major contributions in the paper. The first one is to demosaick G component more precisely. The second one is the spectral-spatial correlations between the three color channels is taken into consideration. At last, through MATLAB simulation experiments, experimental pictures and quantitative data for performance evaluation-Peak Signal to Noise Ratio(PSNR) were gotten. The results of simulation experiments show, compared with other color interpolation algorithms, the proposed algorithm performs well in both visual perception and PSNR measurement. And the proposed algorithm does not increase the complexity of calculation but ensures the real-time of system. Theory and experiments show the method is reasonable and has important engineering significance.
Space laser communication and space quantum communication are all space optical communication, they are similar in communication links, high accuracy tracking and pointing, ground testing etc. The characters of space optical communication determine the necessity of testing and verifying communication terminals, for example, the laser beam reach diffraction limit in space laser communication, weak light detection or single photon detection should be carried out in space quantum communication, communication terminals are relatively moving refer to the ground station, and the terminals should have high quality in tracking target and pointing laser beam, so good system should be used in testing and verifying communication terminals. In this paper we did research on ground testing and verifying systems, we developed optical paths and two ground testing and verifying systems which are compatible with space laser communication and space quantum communication, the two systems contain one laboratory used system and one portable outfield used system. The laboratory used system mainly contains optical communication terminal, two dimensional (2D) simulation turntable, collimator and rear optical path, it can simulate the moving environment, transmission channel and relative motion of the satellite to ground or inter-satellite optical communication, it can also fully test the condition and performance of the optical communication terminals. The portable outfield used system mainly contains opto-mechanical subsystem, 2D turntable, electronic cabinet. The opto-mechanical subsystem is installed on the 2D turntable, it contains front and rear optical path. Electronic cabinet contains industry computer, turntable controller, GPS radio and optical controller, it mainly executes data acquisition, receiving and transmitting command. The portable outfield used system can be used in outfield, to help testing and verifying space-borne equipment. The design breaks through several difficulties, and improved the integrated degree of the system. Theory analysis and experiment shows the system can work properly.
Lithographic equipments are highly complex machines used to manufacture integrated circuits (ICs). To make larger ICs, a larger lens is required, which, however, is prohibitively expensive. The solution to this problem is to expose a chip not in one flash but in a scanning fashion. For step-and-scan lithographic equipment (wafer scanner), the image quality is decided by many factors, in which synchronization of reticle stage and wafer stage during exposure is a key one. In this paper, the principle of reticle stage and wafer stage was analyzed through investigating the structure of scanners, firstly. While scanning, the reticle stage and wafer stage should scan simultaneously at a high speed and the speed ratio is 1:4. Secondly, an iterative learning controller (ILC) for synchronization of reticle stage and wafer stage is presented. In the controller, a master-slave structure is used, with the wafer stage acting as the master, and the reticle stage as the slave. Since the scanning process of scanner is repetitive, ILC is used to improve tracking performance. A simple design procedure is presented which allows design of the ILC system for the reticle stage and wafer stage independently. Finally, performance of the algorithm is illustrated by simulated on the virtual stages (the reticle stage and wafer stage). The results of simulation experiments and theory analyzing demonstrate that using the proposed controller better synchronization performance can be obtained for the reticle stage and wafer stage in scanner. Theory analysis and experiment shows the method is reasonable and efficient.
In neuroscience, signal processing, memory and learning function are established in the brain by modifying ionic fluxes in neurons and synapses. Emulation of memory and learning behaviors of biological systems by nanoscale ionic/electronic devices is highly desirable for building neuromorphic systems or even artificial neural networks. Here, novel artificial synapses based on junctionless oxide-based protonic/electronic hybrid transistors gated by nanogranular phosphorus-doped SiO2-based proton-conducting films are fabricated on glass substrates by a room-temperature process. Short-term memory (STM) and long-term memory (LTM) are mimicked by tuning the pulse gate voltage amplitude. The LTM process in such an artificial synapse is due to the proton-related interfacial electrochemical reaction. Our results are highly desirable for building future neuromorphic systems or even artificial networks via electronic elements.
To obtain a dielectric elastomer with excellent dielectric properties and actuated strain, we used bio-inspired dopamine to functionalize the surface of barium titanate (BT) particles. X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) were used to confirm that a poly(dopamine) (PDA) layer of ca. 3.0 nm had been successfully deposited on the surface of the barium titanate particles. With the introduction of the PDA layer, the compatibility between the barium titanate filler and the elastomer matrix (hydrogenated nitrile-butadiene rubber) was significantly improved, which also resulted in the composites displaying better filler dispersion, higher dielectric constant, lower dielectric loss, and higher electric breakdown field compared with composites filled with pristine BT particles. Furthermore, the composites filled with PDA-coated BT (BT-PDA) exhibited higher electromechanical sensitivity (beta) than the composites filled with pristine BT, leading to increased actuated strains. Nevertheless, the beta of composites filled with pristine BT decreased with increasing content of filler, resulting in decreased actuated strains. Finally, a large actuated strain of 20% without any prestrain was achieved by the composite filled with BT-PDA, which is 54% larger than the largest actuated strain of the polymer without functionalized filler. Moreover, the dopamine functionalization method is simple, efficient, nontoxic, and easy to control, and can be used as a general strategy for improving the dielectric constant, breakdown strength, and actuated strain of dielectric elastomers.
Flying boat is a fixed-wing airplane capable of landing and taking off on water, and its performance, evaluated by its sea-keeping ability, strongly depends on sea conditions. A Flying boat with good sea-keeping ability can reduce impacts from waves and runs safely and smoothly under a certain sea state. However, sea-keeping ability is still the key problem that hinders its development and application. In this paper, based on the mathematical model of a flying boat, a simulation system predicting the motions of the flying boat on an irregular wave is built, and a controller deduced by active disturbance rejection control (ADRC) and Tagaki-Sugeno (T-S) fuzzy reasoning is applied to improve the sea-keeping ability. The simulation results show that the flying boat has good performances for tracking the surface of waves, reducing impact from water, and making the flying boat take off on three water conditions safely (calm water, water with regular wave and water with irregular wave respectively).
In this paper, we consider the distributed protection of a target region by a group of agents with switching interconnection topologies. We propose a distributed controller to achieve the distributed set projection with the same distance and different rotation angles specified by a complex-value adjacency matrix. With mild connectivity assumptions, we prove that all agents can protect/surround a target described by a convex set in a plane.
This paper addresses the coverage problem of multiple mobile agents in the environment. A new formulation is proposed for some coverage problems. Meanwhile, a distributed control method is developed for each agent to optimize the global configuration in parallel with collision avoidance. Moreover, it is proved that locally optimal configuration can be achieved with the aid of navigation functions.
This paper is concerned with the leader-following consensus problem of second-order agents under fixed and directed topologies. The control input of each agent can only use its local state and the states of its neighbors corrupted by white noises. By using Hurwitz stability criteria, Ito formula and graph theory, some necessary and sufficient conditions are given for mean square bounded tracking. Furthermore, if the leader's acceleration has a limit when the time goes to infinity, we give an explicit expression of the tracking error in relation to the network and control parameters. Finally, the effectiveness of the distributed tracking controller is demonstrated by a simulation example.
It is well known that a multi-agent system (MAS) is a specific system consisting of multiple interacting autonomous agents. Consensus or synchronization, as one of the typical collective behaviors, is ubiquitous in nature. Over the last decades, consensus has been widely investigated in various disciplines, including mathematics, physics, biology, engineering, and social sciences. In particular, consensus of MAS with dynamical topology is an emerging new topic motivated by many real-world applications, such as wireless communication and sensor networks. However, the collective behavior of MAS with dynamical topology is very complex and cannot be easily analyzed by the traditional approaches. To resolve the issue of dynamical topology, various techniques and methods have been developed in the last decade. This paper aims to review the main advances in the consensus of MAS with dynamical topology, including several fundamental models and the corresponding methods. The main purpose is to promote this emerging topic on multi-agent systems, with emphasis on the interdisciplinary interest from the circuits and systems engineering communities.
In the disaster rescue process, how to reduce disaster losses as far as possible has become an important research topic. Based on MAS and complex adaptive system theory, this paper constructs a multi-agent model which contains rescue agents and victim agents. Through the full analysis of behaviors and influencing factors during the process, this model includes judgments of the rescue members, behaviors among victims and the impact of relief supplies.
As robots are employed in various fields of manufacturing process, its modeling and analysis is an important process during robot design. Therefore, based on simulation technology, a multi-degree of freedom (DOF) robot arm manipulator simulation and visualization platform is proposed due to the DOF of the joints on a robot differs in specific projects. The Denavit Hartenberg (DH) parametric scheme is adopted in the workspace analysis and relative position computation model. The latter calculates the distance and position between the end-effector and the target. And then, a test case using the platform is presented, the results showed that the platform is feasible for robot design.
Behaviors of multi-robot system based on task-oriented architecture are intuitional according to the flow of task processing that is obvious to plan and monitor. This paper tables a novel task-oriented architecture for space robot application, which consists of task description, task completion analysis, task compromise. For this architecture, author designed a knowledge interchange mechanism base on KIF (Knowledge Interchange Format) and OKBC (Open Knowledge Base Connectivity). Using this knowledge interchange mechanism, knowledge bases designed by different languages comprehend information transmitted form each other.
Kernel methods, such as kernel PCA, kernel PLS, and support vector machines, are widely known machine learning techniques in biology, medicine, chemistry, and material science. Based on nonlinear mapping and Coulomb function, two 3D kernel approaches were improved and applied to predictions of the four protein tertiary structural classes of domains (all-alpha, all-beta, alpha/beta, and alpha + beta) and five membrane protein types with satisfactory results. In a benchmark test, the performances of improved 3D kernel approach were compared with those of neural networks, support vector machines, and ensemble algorithm. Demonstration through leave-one-out cross-validation on working datasets constructed by investigators indicated that new kernel approaches outperformed other predictors. It has not escaped our notice that 3D kernel approaches may hold a high potential for improving the quality in predicting the other protein features as well. Or at the very least, it will play a complementary role to many of the existing algorithms in this regard.
Stretchable strain sensors based on aligned microfibrous arrays of poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene): poly(styrene sulfonate)-poly(vinyl pyrrolidone) (PEDOT:PSS-PVP) with curled architectures have been fabricated by a novel reciprocating-type electrospinning setup with a spinneret in straightforward simple harmonic motion. The incorporation of PEDOT:PSS into PVP is confirmed by Raman spectra, which improves the room-temperature conductivity of the composite fibers (1.6 x 10(-5) S cm(-1)). Owing to the curled architectures of the as-spun fibrous polymer arrays, the sensors can be stretched reversibly with a linear elastic response to strain up to 4%, which is three times higher than that from electrospun nonwoven mats. In addition, the stretchable strain sensor with a high repeatability and durability has a gauge factor of about 360. These results may be helpful for the fabrication of stretchable devices which have potential applications in some fields such as soft robotics, elastic semiconductors, and elastic solar cells.
Skewed class distribution and non-uniform misclassification cost are pervasive in many real-world domains such as bankruptcy prediction, medical diagnosis, and intrusion detection. Although class imbalance learning and cost-sensitive learning can be manipulated in a unified framework as was illustrated in previous studies, the influence of class distribution on cost-sensitive learning still needs clarification. In this paper, we investigate the effect of cost ratio, imbalance ratio and sample size on classification performance using a real-world French bankruptcy database. The results show that the cost ratio and the level of class imbalance have strong effect on prediction performance. A near-balanced training data set is favorable when a relatively uniform cost ratio is used, whereas a near-natural class distribution is favorable when a highly uneven cost ratio is used.
The connection of everything in a sensory and an intelligent way is a pursuit in smart environment. This paper introduces the engineered cell-sensors into the multi-agent systems to realize the smart environment. The seamless interface with the natural environment and strong information-processing ability of cell with the achievements of synthetic biology make the construction of engineered cell-sensors possible. However, the engineered cell-sensors are only simple-functional and unreliable computational entities. Therefore how to combine engineered cell-sensors with digital device is a key problem in order to realize the smart environment. We give the abstract structure and interaction modes of the engineered cell-sensors in order to introduce engineered cell-sensors into multi-agent systems. We believe that the introduction of engineered cell-sensors will push forward the development of the smart environment.
This paper studies synchronization via pinning control on general complex dynamical networks, such as strongly connected networks, networks with a directed spanning tree, weakly connected networks, and directed forests. A criterion for ensuring network synchronization on strongly connected networks is given. It is found that the vertices with very small in-degrees should be pinned first. In addition, it is shown that the original condition with controllers can be reformulated such that it does not depend on the form of the chosen controllers, which implies that the vertices with very large out-degrees may be pinned. Then, a criterion for achieving synchronization on networks with a directed spanning tree, which can be composed of many strongly connected components, is derived. It is found that the strongly connected components with very few connections from other components should be controlled and the components with many connections from other components can achieve synchronization even without controls. Moreover, a simple but effective pinning algorithm for reaching synchronization on a general complex dynamical network is proposed. Finally, some simulation examples are given to verify the proposed pinning scheme.
In a world where adaptive entities meet chemical oscillators, materials are in autonomic motion and assembly systems are completely self-regulated! We review herein the key challenges and new trends at the interface of the fields of adaptive entities and chemical oscillators, where the adaptive entities exhibit autonomous, reversible and periodical variation without any external stimuli. Particular attention is paid to the design philosophy of the recently reported autonomic actuators and self-regulated assembly systems.
This study addresses consensus problems of multi-agent systems (MASs) using dynamic output feedback control under both fixed and switching topologies. We aim to exploit the information structure for the consensusability of MASs. Necessary and sufficient conditions are presented in terms of detectability and stabilisability of the agents, graph topology, and some matrix inequality constraints. These conditions explicitly reveal how consensusability is affected by the intrinsic dynamics of the agents, the communication topology and available information. In addition, this paper provides several constructive procedures for protocol design to achieve consensus, and establishes the so-called separation principle, which simplifies the design procedure greatly.
This paper proposes a novel ensemble learning approach based on logistic regression (LR) and artificial intelligence tool, that is, support vector machine (SVM) and back-propagation neural networks (BPNN), for corporate financial distress forecasting in fashion and textiles supply chains. Firstly, related concepts of LR, SVM, and BPNN are introduced. Then, the forecasting results by LR are introduced into the SVM and BPNN techniques which can recognize the forecasting errors in fitness by LR. Moreover, empirical analysis of Chinese listed companies in fashion and textile sector is implemented for the comparison of the methods, and some related issues are discussed. The results suggest that the proposed novel ensemble learning approach can achieve higher forecasting performance than those of individual models.
This paper designs a tangible programming tool, E-Block, for children aged 5 to 9 to experience the preliminary understanding of programming by building blocks. With embedded artificial intelligence, the tool defines the programming blocks with the sensors as the input and enables children to write programs to complete the tasks in the computer. The symbol on the programming block's surface is used to help children understanding the function of each block. The sequence information is transferred to computer by microcomputers and then translated into semantic information. The system applies wireless and infrared technologies and provides user with feedbacks on both screen and programming blocks. Preliminary user studies using observation and user interview methods are shown for E-Block's prototype. The test results prove that E-Block is attractive to children and easy to learn and use. The project also highlights potential advantages of using single chip microcomputer (SCM) technology to develop tangible programming tools for children.
Target threat assessment is a key issue in the collaborative attack. To improve the accuracy and usefulness of target threat assessment in the aerial combat, we propose a variant of wavelet neural networks, MWFWNN network, to solve threat assessment. How to select the appropriate wavelet function is difficult when constructing wavelet neural network. This paper proposes a wavelet mother function selection algorithm with minimum mean squared error and then constructs MWFWNN network using the above algorithm. Firstly, it needs to establish wavelet function library; secondly, wavelet neural network is constructed with each wavelet mother function in the library and wavelet function parameters and the network weights are updated according to the relevant modifying formula. The constructed wavelet neural network is detected with training set, and then optimal wavelet function with minimum mean squared error is chosen to build MWFWNN network. Experimental results show that the mean squared error is 1.23 x 10(-3), which is better than WNN, BP, and PSO_SVM. Target threat assessment model based on the MWFWNN has a good predictive ability, so it can quickly and accurately complete target threat assessment.
The present paper, based on the Qitai county of Xinjiang, selected 40 soil samples, and used two methods respectively, i.e. multiple linear stepwise regression(MLSR) and artificial neural network (ANNs), to establish the inversion and predieting model of soil organic matter (SOM) content and the model test from measured reflectance spectra and relative test were carried through to the models. Through quantitative analysis, the conclusions can be drawn as follows that the precision values of the different models vary from one to another, the model fitting effects order from high to low is that the integrated model for artificial neural networks (ANNs) is best, single artificial neural networks (ANNs) model is better, while stepwise multiple regression (MLSR) models are worse. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) has the strong abilities of linear and nonlinear approximation, while its integrated model for artificial neural networks (ANNs) is an important way to improve the inversion accuracy of soil organic matter (SOM) content, with the correlation coefficient up to 0.938, root mean square error and total root mean square error are minimum, being 2. 13 and 1. 404 respectively, and the predictive ability of the soil organic matter (SOM) content are very close to the measured spectrum, so the analysis results can achieve a more practical prediction accuracy for the best fitting model.
"Teaching by Showing" control of a small helicopter's aggressive maneuvering often needs inner aided controllers based on helicopter's dynamics, which is very complex to identify. In this paper, a neural network based control is proposed, based on the identification of the relationship between the pilot's control and flight states, and it is a model-free control method. Flight test is done in simulation environment based on real flight data. The results show the effectiveness of the neural network based controller for aggressive flight control.
This paper describes the design and development of a novel dual manipulator system for table tennis as an application of Human-Robot Interaction (HRI). To hit table tennis quickly, a method to obtain time-constrained trajectory joining two way-points is developed and implemented. Because the quintic polynomial trajectory is a smooth curve and can reduce jerk, it appears to be excellent choice for hitting task. Five phase quintic polynomials are adopted to fit the smooth trajectory in joint space under the constraint of robotic kinematics parameters. The boundary conditions of five phase qunitic polynomials used to compute the trajectories are discussed under different initial kinematics conditions. Experimental results of actual robotic system with dual manipulators and vision system show that the proposed method works well.
Multi-agent systems are ubiquitous in the real-world and have received an increasing attention by many researchers worldwide. A multi-agent system is composed of many agents interconnected by a communication network. This paper aims to further investigate the flocking and preserving connectedness in multi-agent nonholonomic systems with proximity graphs, in which the positions and the relative distances are not available to the distributed controllers. Several sufficient conditions are derived to resolve the above problem based on the kinematic model and the dynamic model, respectively. These sufficient conditions indicate that, for any given distinct initial positions and connected initial graph, there always exist gains of the linear protocols to preserve the connectedness of the graph and realize flocking. Moreover, under an additional condition on initial heading angles, the similar result is obtained for a nonlinear protocol with the form of Kuramoto model. Finally, numerical simulations are given to validate the above theoretical results.
Inspired by the transmission of beans in nature, a novel evolutionary algorithm-Bean Optimization Algorithm (BOA) is proposed in this paper. BOA is mainly based on the normal distribution which is an important continuous probability distribution of quantitative phenomena. Through simulating the self-adaptive phenomena of plant, BOA is designed for solving continuous optimization problems. We also analyze the global convergence of BOA by using the Solis and Wets' research results. The conclusion is that BOA can converge to the global optimization solution with probability one. In order to validate its effectiveness, BOA is tested against benchmark functions. And its performance is also compared with that of particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm. The experimental results show that BOA has competitive performance to PSO in terms of accuracy and convergence speed on the explored tests and stands out as a promising alternative to existing optimization methods for engineering designs or applications.
Stock e-exchange prices forecasting is an important financial problem that is receiving increasing attention. This study proposes a novel three-stage nonlinear ensemble model. In the proposed model, three different types of neural-network based models, i.e. Elman network, generalized regression neural network (GRNN) and wavelet neural network (WNN) are constructed by three non-overlapping training sets and are further optimized by improved particle swarm optimization (IPSO). Finally, a neural-network-based nonlinear meta-model is generated by learning three neural-network based models through support vector machines (SVM) neural network. The superiority of the proposed approach lies in its flexibility to account for potentially complex nonlinear relationships. Three daily stock indices time series are used for validating the forecasting model. Empirical results suggest the ensemble ANNs-PSO-GA approach can significantly improve the prediction performance over other individual models and linear combination models listed in this study.
Micro-simulation becomes more and more important in the Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) research, because it can provide detailed descriptions of the system. For a multi-agent systems (MAS) modeling of an ITS, the computation burden is large, as it involves the computation of the state changing of all the agents. And, there are many multi-objective optimization problems in the ITS research. In this paper, we solve the traffic light signaling optimization problem and we take the average delay time and the average stop times as two objectives. We use a famous method of Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm II (NSGA-II). As NSGA-II can be viewed as an intelligent way of running a number of micro-simulations, usually the computation burden is huge. Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) have been a popular tool for parallel computing. The real transportation system runs in parallel and we think that a parallel tool is more suitable for the simulation and optimization of the system. We test GPU based NSGA-II method on a 4 intersection lattice road network, and on the 18 intersection road network of the Zhongguancun area of Beijing. Compared with the CPU version, the GPU version implementation achieves a speedup factor of 21.46 and 27.64 respectively.
This paper proposes a multi-task deep neural network (MTDNN) architecture to handle the multi-label learning problem, in which each label learning is defined as a binary classification task, i.e., a positive class for "an instance owns this label" and a negative class for "an instance does not own this label". Multi-label learning is accordingly transformed to multiple binary-class classification tasks. Considering that a deep neural nets (DNN) architecture can learn good intermediate representations shared across tasks, we generalize one classification task of traditional DNN into multiple binary classification tasks through defining the output layer with a negative class node and a positive class node for each label. After a similar pretraining process to deep belief nets, we redefine the label assignment error of MT-DNN and perform the backpropagation algorithm to fine-tune the network. To evaluate the proposed model, we carry out image annotation experiments on two public image datasets, with 2000 images and 30,000 images respectively. The experiments demonstrate that the proposed model achieves the state-of-the-art performance.
Feature representations play a crucial role in modern face recognition systems. Most hand-crafted image descriptors usually provide low-level information. In this paper, we propose a novel feature learning method based on deep neural networks to obtain high-level, hierarchical representations for face verification. Learning proceeds in two phases. In the pre-training phase, we train Restricted Boltzmann Machine(RBM) networks for each modular region in the image separately. In the fine-tuning phase, in order to develop good discriminative ability, we stack the RBM networks of each region in deep architecture and combine deep learning with side information constraints in the whole image scale. Finally, we formulate the proposed method as an appropriate optimization problem and adopt gradient descent algorithm to get the optimal solution. We evaluate our method on the LFW dataset. Representations learned from the networks achieve comparable performance (93.11%) to the state-of-art method.
Multi-agent systems with balanced topology have been considered intensively in the existing literature. This paper studies consensus of multi-agent systems with unbalanced topology. Two consensus protocols are proposed to solve consensus problems. A novel disagreement function is presented for convergence analysis of consensus protocols. Sufficient conditions for consensus of multi-agent systems are established in both cases. An important finding is that the spanning directed tree plays a key role in addressing consensus. The jointly spanning directed tree is introduced for convergence analysis of multi-agent systems with switching topologies. Simulations are given for illustration the effectiveness of the proposed consensus protocols.
This paper deals with the problem of repetitive learning control for a class of nonlinear systems with non-parametric uncertainties. The control direction of the system is unknown. In the previous studies on neural network control of uncertain systems, only is the semi-global and proximate control achieved if the control direction is unknown. In the paper, based on the technique of global approximation of unknown continuous functions by neural networks, a global repetitive learning control method is presented, which guarantees that the tracking error converges to zero on the repetitive interval uniformly.
This paper considers a distributed adaptive output regulation design for a class of nonlinearly strongly coupled multi-agent systems in an output-feedback form. When the agent dynamics contains unknown parameters, it may lead to uncertain coupling weights in the internal model network. This motivates us to develop a Lyapunov approach integrated with a suitable adaptive control technique to overcome this hurdle. As an illustration, an output synchronization problem of a chain of FitzHugh-Nagumo (FHN) type network and a harmonic oscillator is given.
This paper develops a novel neural-network-based direct adaptive control scheme for a class of multi-input-multi output uncertain nonlinear discrete-time (DT) systems in the presence of unknown bounded disturbances. By employing feedback linearization methods, neural network (NN) approximation can cancel the nonlinearity of the DT systems. Meanwhile, the weights of NNs are directly updated online instead of preliminary offline training. In addition, unlike most literatures, the condition for persistent excitation is removed. Based on Lyapunov's direct method, both tracking errors and weight estimates are guaranteed to be uniformly ultimately bounded, while keeping the closed-loop system stable. Finally, an example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
The cable is easily aroused to vibrate in the process of Source Changing by the unsmooth cable velocity because the cable only can sustain tension but cannot bear thrust. What is worse, the position error of the end point of Source Changing was unacceptable. In this paper, different methods were used to find out the most suitable. The experiments on the scale model were conducted and the experiments data were analyzed. Eventually, the motion planning algorithm based on a continuous acceleration with attitude planning strategy was adopted because of the minor vibration of the cable and the higher accuracy of the end point of Source Changing. The effectiveness of the algorithm in this paper was verified.
This paper considers the assignment problem of mobile robots with a special form of time-attenuating and position-dependent benefit function. We propose a distributed algorithm to solve the assignment problem which ensures to convergence in finite time and results in a solution within n epsilon of being optimal. Moreover, we show by simulation that the convergence time of the algorithm is sensitive to the attenuation factor with distance but insensitive to the velocity of the agents.
This paper presents the stiffness analysis and design of some 3-DOF parallel robots used in second mirror mount for telescope. First, based on the Screw Theory, we designed dozens of structure types, and in this study we picked 3 types, RCU, PUU, and UCU(UP). Second, their stiffness against gravity was analyzed by finite element analysis (FEA) method. The key issues of how the stiffness varying with height angle were investigated. Finally, the regular pattern of stiffness variation with radius ratio of the moving and the static platforms was examined. Study finds: Under low height angles, the stiffness of 3-DOF parallel manipulators is much worse than 6-DOF parallel manipulators; Adding constraining leg can significantly improve the stiffness of 3-DOF parallel manipulators; The stiffness values of 3-DOF parallel manipulators are highly affected by the radius ratio of the moving and the static platforms, and this will provide guidance for optimal design.
Inspired by the characteristics of high agility and stability of live jellyfish, a novel biomimetic robotic jellyfish based on multi-linkage mechanism is developed in this paper. The robotic jellyfish consists of a streamlined head, a cavity shell, four driving devices with bevel gears, four actuators based on multi-linkage mechanism, a regulating mechanism for adjusting barycenter and a skin. The four centrosymmetric actuators is used to imitate the locomotion of jellyfish, including the relaxation phase and the contraction phase. The mutually independent and coordinated control of the four actuators is able to achieve diversified movements such as swimming forward, pitching and yawing. As a new type of bio-inspired robots, the robotic jellyfish with high agility, stability and low noise, will serve as a platform for underwater reconnaissance and environmental monitoring.
In this paper, we investigate the distributed optimization problem based on state-based potential game. We propose a method using lagrange multiplier as state in the design of state-based potential game. We employ a continuous-time dynamic to design the state dynamic and learning algorithms of the state-based potential game. We show that the stationary state Nash equilibrium of the designed game contains the optimal solution of the optimization problem. In addition, we prove the convergence and stability of the learning algorithms for both undirected and directed communication graph under some mild assumptions. Then we propose a model to use our method in Plug-in Electric Vehicle charge management.
In this note, we do something in the cooperative output regulation of linear multi-agent systems. The linear multi-agent systems which we consider is a class of leader-follower systems, only part of agents can access the exogenous signal. What we do is design a simple control law with a dynamic compensator to solve the cooperative output regulation problem. We consider two situations in designing control law, one is using full information of state, another is using part information.
In this paper, we propose a distributed subgradient-based algorithm for a network consisting of two subnetworks to solve the antagonistic optimization problem. The two subnetworks have the same sum objective function, where one wants to minimize it and the other one wants to maximize it. Then the network is engaged in a zero-sum game scenario. We show that the network can achieve a Nash equilibrium by the proposed algorithm for weight-balanced digraphs under mild connectivity and stepsize conditions.
In this paper, containment control for continuous-time multi-agent systems with multiple interacting leaders is investigated. According to the role each agent plays in the multi-agent team, the agents are classified into two categories: leaders and followers. The containment control problem in this paper is that the leaders converge to a desired formation and the followers move into the convex hull spanned by the leaders' final positions. A sufficient condition for containment control is that the union of the interaction graphs has a spanning tree frequently enough as the system evolves. It is shown that the followers' positions in the convex hull are dynamic due to the switching topology. The theoretical results are illustrated by some simulations.
This paper formulates and investigates the relative attitude formation problem of a group of rigid-body agents with directed and switching sensing topologies. Each agent can only measure the attitudes of its neighbors from the body-fixed frame of the agent. Based on the axis-angle representation of the error attitude, we present a distributed protocol and then show how to achieve the desired relative attitude formation, provided that the inter-agent topology graph is jointly connected and each relative attitude between agents initially is contained within a geodesic ball of radius less than 2 pi/3 centered at its desired relative attitude. A numerical example is provided to show the effectiveness of the proposed angular velocity control scheme.
This paper solves distributed consensus tracking problems where the task is to make the multi-agent network, with each agent described by a general linear dynamics, to reach consensus with a leader whose control input is nonzero and not available to any followers. A set of sliding mode surfaces are defined and then fast sliding mode controllers are designed for both reduced order and non-reduced order cases. It is shown that all the trajectories exponentially converge to the sliding mode surfaces in a finite time if the leader has a directed path to at least one of the followers in a strongly connected and detailed balanced directed interaction graph and the leader's control input is bounded. The control Lyapunov function for exponential finite time stability, motivated by the fast terminal sliding mode control, is used to prove the reachability of the sliding mode surfaces. Simulation examples are given to illustrate the theoretical results.
This paper investigates the distributed containment tracking problem of first-order agents with multiple stationary or dynamic leaders under Markovian switching directed network topologies. The control input of each agent can only use its local state and the states of its neighbors corrupted by white noises. Firstly, when the leaders are stationary, some necessary and sufficient conditions are presented to solve the containment tracking in the asymptotic unbiased mean square sense. Secondly, when the leaders are moving, some necessary and sufficient conditions are presented to solve the containment tracking with bounded errors in the mean square sense. Finally, the effectiveness of the distributed tracking controller is demonstrated by simulation examples.
In this paper, a novel learning optimal control scheme is established to design the robust controller of a class of uncertain nonlinear systems. The robust control problem is transformed into the optimal control problem by properly choosing a cost function that reflects the uncertainty, regulation, and control. Then, the online policy iteration algorithm is presented to solve the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation by introducing a critic neural network. The approximate expression of the optimal control policy can be derived directly. Moreover, the closed-loop system is proved to be uniformly ultimately bounded. The equivalence of the neural-network-based HJB solution of the optimal control problem and the solution of the robust control problem is developed as well. Finally, an example is provided to verify the effectiveness of the constructed approach.
Based on the conventional cruise control, vehicle adaptive cruise control (ACC) measures the distance and the relative velocity to the preceding vehicle real time via distance sensor, computes appropriate control output with respect to throttle or brake pedal, and control the velocity or headway automatically. Under the basically security guarantee, ACC could improve the comfort and reduce fuel consumption. This paper comprehensively investigates the theory and technology for ACC of last decades. We conclude the main approach of modeling, control and optimization of ACC, and note that data-based ACC system which conforms driver character and habit has been a new trend.
Human tracking is one of the most important requirements for service mobile robots. Cameras and Laser Ranger Finders (LRFs) are usually used together for human tracking. But these kinds of solutions are too computationally expensive for most embedded processors on these robots as complex computer vision algorithms are needed to process large number of pixels. In this paper, we describe a method combining kinematic measurements from LRF mounted on the robot and Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) carried by the target. These two types of sensors can calculate human's velocity and position independently, which are used as information for both indentifying and tracking the target. As pixels observed by LRF and IMU are 1D rather than 2D, our method requires much less computation and memory resources and can be implemented with low-performance embedded processors.
With the development of multi-interface terminals, a host can connect to the Internet simultaneously by multiple access technologies. Under multi-access technology, a multi-path transmission can obtain high throughput, increased available bandwidth and enhanced reliability. However, the multi-path transmission with multi-access technology also has the problems that the packet re-ordering is unavoidable, and the fast retransmission is unnecessarily requested. Considering the stochastically varying transmission delay, the problems above may eventually result in a degradation of throughput. As a result, in this paper, we focus on the analysis of buffer overflow probability problem which is influenced by the transmission interval. First, we utilize Reinforcement Learning method to estimate the stochastic delay of end-to-end paths. Then, we discuss problems of re-sequencing buffer occupancy distribution and the overflow probability. In this paper, we model the stochastic delay as a continuous random variable, and then, discuss its mean value and variance. Simulation result shows that the re-sequencing buffer overflow probability is influenced by the transmission intervals and the variance of stochastic delay.
In this paper, a relative attitude formation problem is formulated and investigated for multi-agent systems with a directed sensing topology. In the formulation, every rigid-body agent can get its own angular velocity and measure the attitudes and angular velocities of its neighbors from its body-fixed frame. A distributed protocol is proposed with the help of axis-angle representation. Then it is shown to achieve the desired relative attitude formation when the inter-agent topology graph contains a directed spanning tree and initial relative attitudes between agents are contained within geodesic balls of radius 2 pi/3 with the corresponding desired relative attitudes for the agents as the centers.
In this paper, the decentralized stabilization of a class of nonlinear interconnected systems is investigated using online learning optimal control approach. By introducing cost functions that reflect the bounds of interconnections, the optimal controllers of the isolated subsystems can be designed first. Then, it is proved that the decentralized control strategy of the overall system can be developed based on the optimal control policies. Next, the online policy iteration algorithm is presented to solve the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equations. The cost functions and control policies are obtained approximately by employing neural networks. In addition, a simulation example is provided to verify the effectiveness of the present decentralized control strategy.
In this paper, the leaderless and leader-following consensus problems are considered for a class of discrete-time multi-agent systems with limited communication data rate. Under a connected undirected communication network, a quantized observer-based encoding-decoding scheme is designed and a distributed control law based on the outputs of the encoders and decoders is proposed. With the help of the perturbation analysis of matrices and quantization technique, it is shown that n bits of information exchange between agents are enough to guarantee the quantized leaderless and leader-following consensus with an exponential convergence rate, when each agent is in the form of the n-th order integrator and observable with one measurable state.
Access control mechanisms (ACM) play a critical role in protecting operating systems from malicious attacks. A variety of ACMs have been proposed till date, including discretionary access control (DAC) and mandatory access control (MAC). However, it is often challenging to evaluate and compare the quality of protection (QoP) of ACMs, especially when they are deployed on different platforms.
Face recognition with large pose and illumination variations is a challenging problem in computer vision. This paper addresses this challenge by proposing a new learningbased face representation: the face identity-preserving (FIP) features. Unlike conventional face descriptors, the FIP features can significantly reduce intra-identity variances, while maintaining discriminativeness between identities. Moreover, the FIP features extracted from an image under any pose and illumination can be used to reconstruct its face image in the canonical view. This property makes it possible to improve the performance of traditional descriptors, such as LBP [2] and Gabor [31], which can be extracted from our reconstructed images in the canonical view to eliminate variations. In order to learn the FIP features, we carefully design a deep network that combines the feature extraction layers and the reconstruction layer. The former encodes a face image into the FIP features, while the latter transforms them to an image in the canonical view. Extensive experiments on the large MultiPIE face database [7] demonstrate that it significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art face recognition methods.
This paper proposes a hybrid convolutional network (ConvNet)-Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM) model for face verification in wild conditions. A key contribution of this work is to directly learn relational visual features, which indicate identity similarities, from raw pixels of face pairs with a hybrid deep network. The deep ConvNets in our model mimic the primary visual cortex to jointly extract local relational visual features from two face images compared with the learned filter pairs. These relational features are further processed through multiple layers to extract high-level and global features. Multiple groups of ConvNets are constructed in order to achieve robustness and characterize face similarities from different aspects. The top-layer RBM performs inference from complementary high-level features extracted from different ConvNet groups with a two-level average pooling hierarchy. The entire hybrid deep network is jointly fine-tuned to optimize for the task of face verification. Our model achieves competitive face verification performance on the LFW dataset.
Spin image is a good feature descriptor of the 3D surface, thus it has been extensively used in many applications such as SLAM of mobile robot and cooperation of heterogeneous robots. However, due to the huge computational burden, it is difficult to be used in real time applications. Thus, in order to improve the efficiency and accuracy of spin image based point clouds registration algorithm, a fast registration algorithm is proposed in this paper based on low-dimensional feature space composed of curvature, the Tsallis entropy of the spin image and laser reflection intensity. The main contribution of this paper is that through constructing the low dimensional feature space, the correspondence searching procedure can be divided into two steps: firstly, select similar key points in the proposed low dimensional feature space using k-d tree; then spin image feature is used to search for correspondences among a very limited amount of point candidates. Finally, experiments with respect to a man made surroundings are conducted and the results show the feasibility and validity of the new proposed algorithm.
Robots in dynamic and uncertain environments are vulnerable to mission failures due to external perturbation or internal malfunctions. Diagnosis is the process to detect, locate or even assess the fault. Since robots rely on their function modules to sense the external environment, it is difficult to locate the fault under uncertainties of robot components. The situation can be worse when there is also uncertainty about the environment. To resolve this issue, this paper proposes a new method to actively gain diagnostic information to locate the failure-cause more accurately under uncertainties. An integrated strategy of self-function-checking and diagnostic-plan is described. Validation using JSHOP2 planner showed that robots using this strategy was able to locate failure-cause with high autonomy.
This paper presents a synchronization control strategy for multirobot formation with time delays. Firstly, a synchronization error is defined with consideration of communication delays. Secondly, a decentralized synchronous trajectory tracking controller is developed. It is proven that this synchronous controller guarantees both position and synchronization errors to converge to zero. Finally, simulations are performed in formation-switching tasks. The results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed synchronous formation control approach.
In decades, many researchers have came up with many path planning algorithms. Robots rely on sensor data to deduce inner and outer state as its position. Many localization algorithm suggests robot's knowledge of its position should be a probability distribution. However, previews path planning algorithms fell to utilize this information and just simply assume the robots to be in a single certain point. In this paper, we described the implementation of a new algorithm M* that takes the uncertainty of the robots location into detailed consideration. M* uses Monto Carlo method to represent probability distribution and by considering problem in high dimension space it transfer the problem into a neatly form. Some important concepts are introduced and pseudo code is used to show how them work.
Wheeled in-pipe robots have been widely used in pipelines inspection and exploring because of simple structure, steady performance and consuming less energy. However when wheeled mobile robots run in muddy in-pipe environment they often can't be control to move accurately and continuously mainly because the ground cannot provide adequate adhesion. In order to improve the movement performance of the robot in this environment we establish a model based on terramechanics. With this model further research including motion performance of wheeled in-pipe robots has been conducted in muddy in-pipe environment in this paper. The model of wheel-terrain interaction is established with the finite element software ABAQUS. With this model we analyze what and how the factors which affect the adhesion. The actual experimental results show the model and simulated analysis is useful and helpful to mechanical design and control strategy design for wheeled in-pipe robots.
For surveillance robots, road detection is of high importance for other functionalities such as pedestrian detection, obstacle avoidance, autonomous running, etc. The vision-based road detection is to classify image pixels belonging to road surface or not. Up to now, most algorithms are designed for working during daytime. In this paper, we focus on road detection at night. Firstly a planar reflection model is used to fit the intensity distribution of the images pixels got from a near-infrared camera. After that, we use a pixel-based classification to determine whether the pixel belongs to the road surface or not. In the experiments, we compare our algorithm with the region growing method. The results show that our approach works better in several aspects.
The task of path planning has attracted considerable attentions over decades. Most path planning research was focused on the property of environment, which is either static or dynamic, and many accomplishments have been achieved. However, less attention has been paid to the uncertainty of robot location. Previous research works always assume the position of robot to be a certain point, which is a waste of information. Actually, many localization algorithms suggest that robots knowledge of its location is a probability distribution over many points. Partial Observable Markov Decision Process(POMDP) provides a framework to handle uncertainty in planing. In this paper we propose a new path planning algorithm, which is called M* to find an admissible and optimal path for moving robots with the initial position of the robot be uncertain. By using the Monte Carlo method and considering in high dimensionality, we transform this problem into a more neat form and make A* applicable.
With the rising of internet photos-sharing web sites, the rich aware text information surrounding images on the sites are proved helpful to improve the image classification. This paper presents a novel nested deep learning model called Nested Deep Belief Network(NDBN) for tag-aware image classification. A multi-layer structure of Deep Belief Network(DBN) is established to learn a unified representation of visual feature and tag feature for an image, and an additional Gaussian Restricted Boltzmann Machine is built to capture the tag-tag dependency. Compared with conventional methods, the proposed model can not only find correlations across modalities, but mine the importance for different tags, and also bring about low-rank tag feature representation. We conduct experiments over the MIR Flickr dataset and the results show that the proposed NDBN model outperforms the existing image classification techniques.
Brain-computer interface (BCI) controlled wheelchair robots can serve as powerful aids for severely disabled people in their daily life, especially to help them move voluntarily. In order to better understand human " thought", owing to the development of the hybrid brain/muscle interface technique, in this paper, we present a real-time hybrid brain/muscle interface to control a wheelchair directly to keep the disables recovering several motion capabilities by using noninvasive motor imagery Electroencephalography (EEG) and Electromyography (EMG). The EMG and EEG signals from the users are extracted to control the motion of an intelligent wheelchair. Both signals processing consists of off-line training, online control evaluation, and real-time control. An algorithm called the common spatial patterns (CSP) is used in this human-robot system to extract the most discriminative spatial patterns pairs as features. The extensive experiments were conducted on the developed human-wheelchair systems to verify the proposed approaches.
Path planning is a core problem of the mobile robot navigation technology. However, few path plan methods that have been proposed consider the path smoothness and the robot attitude in the path. In this paper, a novel path planning method is proposed which considers three optimizing targets, including the path length, the path smoothness and the distance between the path and the obstacles. Firstly, a localization method which the path planning method relies on is explained. Secondly, a path planning model considering the path smoothness and the robot posture is discussed in detail. Thirdly, a solution based on particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm is discussed. Fourthly, simulation results are shown and analyzed. At last, conclusion and future work are provided.
This paper presents an analysis on stability robustness of the widely used nonlinear dynamic inversion algorithm. By using nonlinear dynamic inversion algorithm, the multiple-inputs-multiple-outputs affine nonlinear system which has bounded uncertainty and disturbances is transformed into a linear time varying system with special structure. Thus the stability robustness issues of nonlinear dynamic inversion based controller are formulated as the stability problem of linear time varying differential equation and solved by linear time varying system theory. Sufficient conditions of stability and tracking error bound for the closed loop system are given and an illustrative example is also presented.
Locomotion on rough terrain is a critical and basic capability for quadruped robots. In this paper, we present a gait planning approach of crossing planar obstacles for a quadruped robot. The system is composed by rhythmic motion generation and gait planning algorithm. Rhythmic motion generation is mainly composed of two parts: the Central Pattern Generator (CPG) model based on the Holf oscillator to output the standard oscillation signals and the motion amplitude adjustment for controllable oscillation amplitudes of the negative part and positive part. The gait planning algorithm outputs a sequence set of footholds that guarantees the stability and validity of locomotion. The experimental results on a real quadruped robot prove the feasibility and effectiveness of our system in unstructured terrain.
Vision based observation of a moving target is one of the important problems and hot issues of mobile robot system. Dynamical vision sensors which is constituted with multiple robots to obtain improved observational results has been shown to be a good substitution of single vision sensors. Thus, a new active cooperative observation (ACO) method based on two dynamical vision sensors is proposed. The most characteristics of the proposed method is that data fusion and path planning algorithm are simultaneously implemented and combined with each other by the optimal observation formation so that the influence of relative positions among MVSs and target on the cooperative observation result can be fully considered to improve the observation result. Finally, for verifying the validity and feasibility of the proposed method, experiments on a multiple rotor flying robots test-bed are conducted and analyzed, respectively.
This paper deals with the design, construction, and motion control of a jellyfish-inspired swimming robot that uses jet propulsion for thrust generation. The robotic jellyfish consists of a streamlined head, a cavity shell, four separate drive units with bevel gears, as well as an elastic rubber skin around the drive units. In order to replicate the locomotion of jellyfish including a relaxation phase and a contraction phase, four six-bar linkage mechanisms that are centrally symmetric are adopted as the actuators. A triangular wave control algorithm is then proposed to produce desired control signals with an embedded controller. Through independent and coordinated control of the four drive units, the robotic jellyfish is capable of diverse propulsion and maneuvers like swimming forward, turning, and diving/surfacing. Aquatic experiments are further conducted to verify the proposed design and control methods. As a new type of bio-inspired robots, the robotic jellyfish will serve as an effective platform for underwater reconnaissance and environmental monitoring.
The solving strategy of artificial intelligence (AI) is adopted with bottom-up design to solve its hard problems. To tackle end-to-end AI-hard problems, a highly self-adaptive control system-on-chip has been developed to self-learn its internal and external resources with the aid of sets of sensors and actuators. Inspired by biological cell learning theory, different approaches of modelling techniques have been derived together with machine learning methods to the embedded control systems so as to perform different tasks. Some experimental results have shown the developments.
Pose estimation of object is one of the key problems for the automatic-grasping task of robotics. In this paper, we present a new vision-based robotic grasping system, which can not only recognize different objects but also estimate their poses by using a deep learning model, finally grasp them and move to a predefined destination. The deep learning model demonstrates strong power in learning hierarchical features which greatly facilitates the recognition mission. We apply the Max-pooling Convolutional Neural Network (MPCNN), one of the most popular deep learning models, in this system, and assign different poses of objects as different classes in MPCNN. Besides, a new object detection method is also presented to overcome the disadvantage of the deep learning model. We have built a database comprised of 5 objects with different poses and illuminations for experimental performance evaluation. The experimental results demonstrate that our system can achieve high accuracy on object recognition as well as pose estimation. And the vision-based robotic system can grasp objects successfully regardless of different poses and illuminations.
Crossing a door is usually a necessary action for autonomous patrol of an indoor surveillance robot. However, it is difficult for a large robot to cross narrow doors. In this paper, a method for detecting, locating and crossing a door for an indoor surveillance robot with Kinect is presented. Firstly, doors are detected and located based on RGB-D data collected form Kinect. Then, the conversion between robot coordinate system and world coordinate system is discussed. Thirdly, a nonlinear adaptive controller is designed for the robot to move perpendicularly through the door. Experiments were taken on a surveillance robot and the results illustrated the effectiveness of this method.
Traditionally, discrete robot's performance in flexibility and obstacle avoidance is not very outstanding, while continuum robot cannot load much and its motion space is limited. In this paper, a new robot with hybrid joints was designed based on the two kinds of robots mentioned above. First, the connection mode between discrete and continuum joints was analyzed. It was found that when the axis of the discrete joint was vertical to the tangential direction of the continuum one, the robot's motion space could be extended. Second, the driving modes of continuum and discrete joints were introduced, and it was also introduced in detail how the continuum joint was controlled by the external ropes. Then the analysis of the dynamics model and kinematics simulation of the continuum joint was carried out, and it was found: There is effect on the control by gravity, and in the same condition, the tension of ropes is relatively larger with gravity. While the continuum joint can move smoothly without gravity and the effect by gravity does not change over the increase of the degree of elastic rod.
The visualization of the coronary vasculature is of utmost importance in interventional cardiology. Intravascular surgical robots assist the practitioners to perform the complex procedure while protecting them from the tremendous occupational hazards. Robotic surgical simulation aims to provide support for the learners in both efficiency and convenience. The blood vessels especially the coronary arteries with rich details are the key part of the anatomic scenario of the virtual training system. The variations in diameters and directions make the segmentation of the coronary arteries a difficult work. In this paper, a robust and semi-automatic approach for the segmentation of the coronary arteries is developed. The approach is based on the multi-scale tubular enhancement and an improved geodesic active contours model. The demonstrated approach firstly enhances the tubular objects by computing their "vesselness". Next the edge potential maps are calculated based on the enhanced information. Meanwhile, the initial contours are generated by a modified fast marching method. Then the actual wave fronts evolution extracts the details of the coronary arteries. Finally the visualization model is organized based on the segmentation results by the marching cubes method. This approach has been proved successful for the visualization of the coronary arteries based on the CTA information.
A horizontal exoskeleton for lower limb rehabilitation called iLeg has been developed by our laboratory which consists of two 3-DOF (degrees of freedom) robotic leg orthoses. This paper proposes a position-based impedance control with the compensation of BP NNs (back propagation neural networks) for the exoskeleton. Based on the control scheme, the task-oriented active training is investigated where impedance parameters are self-adjusted to movement deviation and patient activities with fuzzy logic. An adaptive haptic interface of active compliance is ensured to provide positive feedback to patients when their effort is desired or negative otherwise, which encourages patients to practice the desired movement following the predefined directed path. Besides, the timing freedom is separated from spatial trajectory and determined by patients. Voluntary effort hence becomes a requirement during the exercises, no effort no movement, so that active contribution of patients is highly motivated. Simulation results have verified the feasibility of the control scheme and the training strategy. An active compliant environment is created with adaptive haptic interface for task-oriented patient-driven training of multi-joint coordination.
As an important type of industrial manipulator, spot welding robots are usually needed to work under high speed and heavy load working condition. The working condition can cause a dynamic deformation of the robot, which cannot be fast and accurately calculated currently. The dynamic deformation leads to poor performance of the robot, e.g. the end effector trajectory deflection and vibration. In this paper, we present a method for the robot dynamic deformation calculation, which can be practically applied to spot welding robots. The method is mainly implemented in three steps: 1. Based on the robot working condition, we first calculate the kinestate of each link in base frame, i.e. angular velocity and acceleration, linear velocity and acceleration. And we thus can obtain the inertia forces and torques of each link. 2. We build a finite element analysis (FEA) modeling by confirming the robot configuration, defining material property, setting constraints and meshing. 3. Orderly, we apply each inertia fore, inertia torque, robot gravity and load on the FEA modeling and calculate the responding dynamic deformation. The total deformation can be obtained by sum of all deformations, and we can also get the stress and strain condition in the same way. The proposed method provides a basis for robot dynamic deformation calculation and its effectiveness has been demonstrated by experiments.
This paper proposes a general motion planning method for manipulators on the basis of polynomial interpolation. The impact suffered by manipulators during movement can be eliminated by using this method. And this reduces vibration of manipulators largely. In order to overcome the difficulties in realizing the algorithm, a method of quadratic interpolation is proposed. With the method, the computation amount of motion planning is reduced, while the result is still with no impact. The motion planning experiments driving the manipulator's end effector to run a three-dimensional arc are carried out with a self-developed 6-DOF manipulator system. Through the experiments, it is verified that the motion planning method proposed is feasible and has good effects.
Natural and friendly interface is critical for the development of service robot. Gesture-based interface offers an easy and efficient way to interact with robots. In this paper, we implement a Gesture-based interaction system for manipulating service robot. A robust algorithm based on Support Vector Machines (SVM) for recognizing hand gesture is proposed. Our method first detects the hand region by a two-step strategy based on skin color as well as depth images. The Hu moment invariants are then extracted from the hand region. After that, an SVM classifier is trained and is employed to recognize the hand gestures, Finally the interaction system server translates the gesture into pre-defined commands and sends it to the service robot " SIATRob". The accuracy and effectiveness of the algorithm are examined over several videos with different participants under complex background, changing lights as well as image noises. Experimental results show that our method can reliably and accurately recognize hand gestures in real time.
ACO is an effective method to solve Single Source Capacitated Facility Location Problem (SSCFLP). However, the increasing data size will cause its decreasing computing efficiency. Based on Agent-Oriented Programming (AOP) paradigm to build a distributed Multi-Agent System of ACO to solve SSCFLP is an efficient way of reducing computing time. This method is tested in three comparative experiments under two different data size condition, which proves that using multiple computers to build MAS can greatly improve the efficiency of intelligent computing.
This paper proposes a novel sparse variant of auto-encoders as a building block to pre-train deep neural networks. Compared with sparse auto-encoders through KL-divergence, our method requires fewer hyper-parameters and the sparsity level of the hidden units can be learnt automatically. We have compared our method with several other unsupervised leaning algorithms on the benchmark databases. The satisfactory classification accuracy (97.92% on MNIST and 87.29% on NORB) can be achieved by a 2-hidden-layer neural network pre-trained using our algorithm, and the whole training procedure (including pre-training and fine-tuning) takes far less time than the state-of-art results.
In this paper, a new iterative optimal learning control scheme for discrete-time nonlinear systems using iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) approach is developed to obtain the optimal control law for coal gasification control systems. For the unknown coal gasification process, neural networks (NNs) are introduced to reconstruct the dynamics of the gasification process, where the approximation errors of the reconstruction dynamics are considered. Via system transformation, the optimal tracking control problem with approximation errors is transformed into a two-person zero-sum optimal control problem. A new iterative ADP algorithm is then developed to obtain the optimal control law for the transformed system with convergence analysis. Finally, numerical results are given to illustrate the performance of the present method.
This article investigates the global bounded consensus problem of networked multi-agent systems exhibiting nonlinear, non-identical node dynamics with communication time-delays. Globally bounded consensus conditions for both delay-independent and delay-dependent conditions based on the Lypunov-Krasovskii functional method are derived. The proposed consensus criteria ensures that all agents eventually move along the desired trajectories in the sense of boundedness. The proposed consensus criteria generalises the case of identical agent dynamics to the case of non-identical agent dynamics, and many related results in this area can be viewed as special cases of the above results. We finally demonstrate the effectiveness of the theoretical results by means of a numerical simulation.
Bankruptcy trajectory reflects the dynamic changes of financial situation of companies, and hence make possible to keep track of the evolution of companies and recognize the important trajectory patterns. This study aims at a compact visualization of the complex temporal behaviors in financial statements. We use self-organizing map (SUM) to analyze and visualize the financial situation of companies over several years through a two-step clustering process. Initially, the bankruptcy risk is characterized by a feature self-organizing map (FSOM), and therefore the temporal sequence is converted to the trajectory vector projected on the map. Afterwards, the trajectory self-organizing map (TSOM) clusters the trajectory vectors to a number of trajectory patterns. The proposed approach is applied to a large database of French companies spanning over four years. The experimental results demonstrate the promising functionality of SUM for bankruptcy trajectory clustering and visualization. From the viewpoint of decision support, the method might give experts insight into the patterns of bankrupt and healthy company development. (c) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper proposes a bacterial foraging based approach for portfolio optimization problem. We develop an improved portfolio optimization model by introducing the endogenous and exogenous liquidity risk and the corresponding indexes are designed to measure the endogenous/exogenous liquidity risk, respectively. Bacterial foraging optimization (BFO) is employed to find the optimal set of portfolio weights in the improved Mean-Variance model. BFO-LDC which is a modified BFO with linear deceasing chemotaxis step is proposed to further improve the performance of BFO. With four benchmark functions, BFO-LDC is proved to have better performance than the original BFO. And then comparisons of the results produced by BFO, BFO-LDC, particle swarm optimization (PSO), and genetic algorithms (GAs) for the proposed portfolio optimization model are presented. Simulation results show that BFOs can obtain both near optimal and the practically feasible solutions to the liquidity risk portfolio optimization problem. In addition, BFO-LDC outperforms BFO in most cases. (c) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this study, the authors propose a novel adaptive dynamic programming scheme based on general value iteration (VI) to obtain near optimal control for discrete-time affine non-linear systems with continuous state and control spaces. First, the selection of initial value function is different from the traditional VI, and a new method is introduced to demonstrate the convergence property and convergence speed of value function. Then, the control law obtained at each iteration can stabilise the system under some conditions. At last, an error-bound-based condition is derived considering the approximation errors of neural networks, and then the error between the optimal and approximated value functions can also be estimated. To facilitate the implementation of the iterative scheme, three neural networks with Levenberg-Marquardt training algorithm are used to approximate the unknown system, the value function and the control law. Two simulation examples are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
A learning controller of nonhonolomic robot in real-time based on support vector machine (SVM) is presented. The controller includes two parts: one is kinematic controller based on nonlinear law, and the other is dynamic controller based on SVM. The kinematic controller is aimed to provide desired velocity which can make the steering system stable. The dynamic controller is aimed to transform the desired velocity to control torque. The parameters of the dynamic system of the robot are estimated through SVM learning algorithm according to the training data of sliding windows in real time. The proposed controller can adapt to the changes in the robot model and uncertainties in the environment. Compared with artificial neural network (ANN) controller, SVM controller can converge to the reference trajectory more quickly and the tracking error is smaller. The simulation results verify the effectiveness of the method proposed.
There are increasing demands for EOP predictions in science, deep space navigation, etc. Based on previous research on short-term prediction of Earth Orientation Parameters (EOP) by artificial neural networks (ANN), we extend our attempt to long-term predictions of EOPs, i.e. predictions with a lead time up to 360 days. The basic theory and some special considerations for the ANN forecast of EOPs are presented, and finally our preliminary results and their accuracy estimates are shown and compared with those obtained by other authors. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Integrative design of communication mechanism and coordinated control law is an interesting and important problem for multi-agent networks. In this paper, we consider distributed coordination of discrete-time second-order multi-agent systems with partially measurable state and a limited communication data rate. A quantized-observer based encoding-decoding scheme is designed, which integrates the state observation with encoding/decoding. A distributed coordinated control law is proposed for each agent which is given in terms of the states of its encoder and decoders. It is shown that for a connected network, 2-bit quantizers suffice for the exponential asymptotic synchronization of the states of the agents. The selection of controller parameters and the performance limit are discussed. It is shown that the algebraic connectivity and the spectral radius of the Laplacian matrix of the communication graph play key roles in the closed-loop performance. The spectral radius of the Laplacian matrix is related to the selection of control gains, while the algebraic connectivity is related to the spectral radius of the closed-loop state matrix. Furthermore, it is shown that as the number of agents increases, the asymptotic convergence rate can be approximated as a function of the number of agents, the number of quantization levels (communication data rate) and the ratio of the algebraic connectivity to the spectral radius of the Laplacian matrix of the communication graph.
This paper provides theoretical analysis of some key features of snake-like robot locomotion. Inspired by the moving mechanism of animals, the snake robot built with simple modules is numerically controlled. A most common method for its locomotion is to apply a central pattern generator to efficiently generate the control signals of gait and movement. This paper analyses stability, crawling gait, moving velocity, climbing capability, the capability to cross ditches and avoid obstacles, etc. Mathematical models and simulations show the theoretical validity and robot capabilities.
Data clustering is a popular data analysis technique needed in many fields. Recent years, some swarm intelligence-based approaches for clustering were proposed and achieved encouraging results. This paper presents a Hybrid Artificial Bee Colony (HABC) algorithm for data clustering. The incentive mechanism of HABC is enhancing the information exchange (social learning) between bees by introducing the crossover operator of Genetic Algorithm (GA) to ABC. With a test on ten benchmark functions, the proposed HABC algorithm is proved to have significant improvement over canonical ABC and several other comparison algorithms. The HABC algorithm is then employed for data clustering. Six real datasets selected from the UCI machine learning repository are used. The results show that the HABC algorithm achieved better results than other algorithms and is a competitive approach for data clustering. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Zinc-binding proteins are the most abundant metalloproteins in the Protein Data Bank where the zinc ions usually have catalytic, regulatory or structural roles critical for the function of the protein. Accurate prediction of zinc-binding sites is not only useful for the inference of protein function but also important for the prediction of 3D structure. Here, we present a new integrative framework that combines multiple sequence and structural properties and graph-theoretic network features, followed by an efficient feature selection to improve prediction of zinc-binding sites. We investigate what information can be retrieved from the sequence, structure and network levels that is relevant to zinc-binding site prediction. We perform a two-step feature selection using random forest to remove redundant features and quantify the relative importance of the retrieved features. Benchmarking on a high-quality structural dataset containing 1,103 protein chains and 484 zinc-binding residues, our method achieved >80% recall at a precision of 75% for the zinc-binding residues Cys, His, Glu and Asp on 5-fold cross-validation tests, which is a 10%-28% higher recall at the 75% equal precision compared to SitePredict and zincfinder at residue level using the same dataset. The independent test also indicates that our method has achieved recall of 0.790 and 0.759 at residue and protein levels, respectively, which is a performance better than the other two methods. Moreover, AUC (the Area Under the Curve) and AURPC (the Area Under the Recall-Precision Curve) by our method are also respectively better than those of the other two methods. Our method can not only be applied to large-scale identification of zinc-binding sites when structural information of the target is available, but also give valuable insights into important features arising from different levels that collectively characterize the zinc-binding sites. The scripts and datasets are available at http://protein.cau.edu.cn/zincidentifier/.
Decentralized information flow control (DIFC) is a key innovation of traditional information flow control (IFC). When compared with IFC, DIFC provides new features including decentralized declassification, taint-tracking and privilege-transferring. These characteristics make DIFC more applicable than traditional IFC to the control of information flows in systems. This paper presents an optimal approach to the mining of security labels for DIFC. This approach can effectively improve DIFC's applicability and manageability in a wide variety of environments. We firstly design a novel policy description language to express security requirements in DIFC characterized assertions. Next, we prove that the problem of obtaining security labels from DIFC assertions is NP-complete. Based on logic programming and genetic algorithm, the proposed approach finally outputs optimal security labels separately for different DIFC systems in both small and large-scale environments. The objectives of this paper are to address two practical aspects of DIFC: (1) how to express security requirements by using DIFC characterized assertions; (2) how to obtain optimal DIFC labels to satisfy security requirements. The experimental results show that the proposed approach is effective in implementing fine-grained information control according to practical security requirements. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Motion planning is an important problem in character animation and interactive simulation. However, few planning methods have considered domain-specific knowledge that governs the agent's behaviors, and none of them is capable of planning the interactive task in which the agent interacts with the objects in the virtual environment. This paper presents a novel method to plan the interactive task based on Q-learning for intelligent characters. The approach can be described as a three-phase framework: data preprocessing phase, controller learning phase, and motion-synthesis phase. In the data preprocessing phase, we abstract the motion clips as high-level behaviors and construct the interactive behavior graph (IBG) to define the interactive capabilities of the agent in terms of interactive features. For the controller training phase, with IBG, Q-learning algorithm is employed to train the control policy in the discrete domain with interactive features. In the motion-synthesis phase, the optimal motion sequences can be generated by following the policy to accomplish the interactive task finally. The experimental results demonstrate that the uniform framework can generate reasonable and realistic motion sequences to plan interactive task in complex environment. Copyright (c) 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
A novel hierarchical function action behavior mechanism (FABM) modeling framework is proposed to conduct intelligent mapping from the overall function to the principle solution, according to the requirements of customers. Based on the hierarchical modeling framework, an object-oriented representation method is developed to express the inheritance and the interconnecting characteristics between any two objects. In addition, the rules of expansion and modification in demand behavior are proposed to solve the combinational explosion problem, and the combinational rules in the mechanism behavior are developed to extend the innovation of the principle solution. A case study on the pan mechanism design for a cooking robot is presented to demonstrate the implementation of intelligent reasoning based on the FABM model.
Non-destructive and rapid monitoring methods for crude protein content (CPC) in rice grain are of significance in nitrogen diagnosis and grain quality monitoring, and in enhancing nutritional management and use efficiency. In this study, CPC and canopy spectra in rice were measured based on rice field experiment. Key spectral bands were selected by principal component analysis (PCA) method, and the predicted models were built by multiple linear regressions (MLR), artificial neural network (ANN) and partial least squares regression (PLSR). The results showed that there is a significant correlation between CPC content and key spectral bands. The results of prediction for the three models were in order of PLSR > ANN > MLR with correlation values of 0.96, 0.92 and 0.90, respectively, for the validation data. Therefore, it is implied that CPC in rice (grain quality) could be estimated by canopy spectral data.
A new method integrating support vector machine (SVM), particle swarm optimization (PSO) and chaotic mapping (CPSO-SVM) was proposed to predict the deformation of tunnel surrounding rock mass. Since chaotic mapping was featured by certainty, ergodicity and stochastic property, it was employed to improve the convergence rate and resulting precision of PSO. The chaotic PSO was adopted in the optimization of the appropriate SVM parameters, such as kernel function and training parameters, improving substantially the generalization ability of SVM. And finally, the integrating method was applied to predict the convergence deformation of the Xiakeng tunnel in China. The results indicate that the proposed method can describe the relationship of deformation time series well and is proved to be more efficient.
From the perspective of energy security, this paper focuses on country risk forecasting for major oil exporting countries. Due to the two main characteristics of country risk of oil exporting countries, i.e. the complexity and the mutability, this study proposes a decomposition hybrid approach (DNA) for predicting country risk of oil exporters, based on the principle of "decomposition and ensemble" and the strategy of "divide and conquer". In DHA, effective decomposition methods, such as ensemble empirical mode decomposition (EEMD), are specially introduced to decompose oil exporter's country risk into a series of relatively easily forecasting components; powerful prediction tools, such as least squares support vector regression (LSSVR), are then implemented to predict all extracted components; and finally these predicted results are fused into an ensemble for the original data via ensemble approaches, such as LSSVR model or simple addition (ADD) approach. Experimental results, with ten major oil exporters as study samples, demonstrate that DNA with decomposition process can be statistically proved to be much stronger and more robust than other popular prediction models. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved,
In this paper, we present a new method based on echo state network (ESN) to control discrete chaotic systems. ESN could achieve very high precision in chaotic time series prediction and overcome most issues encountered in using traditional artificial neural networks, especially local minima and overfitting. In order to achieve good control effect when there is noise in chaotic systems, an adaptive noise canceler is introduced to eliminate the effect of the noise and perturbation. The support vector machine (SVM) is adopted to identify inverse model of the controlled plant as the adaptive noise canceler. Simulation results show that the proposed method could achieve very good control effect, possess a good stability and completely reduce the adverse effect. (C) 2012 Elsevier By. All rights reserved.
An optimal motion planning of a free-falling cat based on the spline approximation is investigated. Nonholonomicity arises in a free-falling cat subjected to nonintegrable velocity constraints or nonintegrable conservation laws. The equation of dynamics of a free-falling cat is obtained by using the model of two symmetric rigid bodies. The control of the system can be converted to the motion planning problem for a driftless system. A cost function is used to incorporate the final errors and control energy. The motion planning is to determine control inputs to minimize the cost function and is formulated as an infinite dimensional optimal control problem. By using the control parameterization, the infinite dimensional optimal control problem can be transformed to a finite dimensional one. The particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm with the cubic spline approximation is proposed to solve the finite dimension optimal control problem. The cubic spline approximation is introduced to realize the control parameterization. The resulting controls are smooth and the initial and terminal values of the control inputs are zeros, so they can be easily generated by experiment. Simulations are also performed for the nonholonomic motion planning of a free-falling cat. Simulated experimental results show that the proposed algorithm is more effective than the Newtoian algorithm.
Kernel machines are widely applied in classification because of many typical advantages, such as a good capacity to deal with high-dimensional data, good generation performance, few parameters to adjust, explainable results, etc. The kernel-based Fisher discriminant analysis (KFDA) is a typical kernel-based method based on the statistical discriminant analysis and it includes both the training and testing process. The model is trained by a dataset of environmental factors that cause landslide occurrence and target output values. Furthermore, the trained model is tested by a separate set of testing samples. This approach utilizes a kernel function to map data from the original feature space to a high-dimensional space, through which a nonlinear problem is converted into a linear one. A typical landslide study area, namely Qinggan River delta, situated in Three Gorges, China, is selected for this study and the following environmental factors are determined as independent variables of the model-lithology, elevation, normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI), slope, aspect, distance to rivers, plan curvature, and profile curvature. Judging from the accuracies of the training and testing samples, the sigmoid kernel performed better than the radial basis function kernel and the polynomial kernel. Using different ratios of landslide to non-landslide samples, the performance of KFDA is compared with the linear Fisher discriminant analysis (LFDA) and the logistic regression using a ROC/AUC validation. The results reveal that the average performance of KFDA for all ratios of samples is the most optimal with the mean AUC value as high as 0.911, while the mean AUC values of the logistic regression and LFDA are 0.867 and 0.089 respectively. Although the logistic regression performed slightly better than KFDA when the ratio of landslide to non-landslide samples was 2:1 and 3:1, its AUC values for other ratios of samples are much lower than the AUC values of KFDA. KFDA is more robust and less sensitive to different ratios of samples. The susceptibility map produced by KFDA shows that the regions around rivers are highly at risk to the occurrence of landslides in the study area. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Comprehensive assessment of debris flow hazard risk is challenging due to the complexity and uncertainties of various related factors. A reasonable and reliable assessment should be based on sufficient data and realistic approaches. This study presents a novel appeoach for assessing debris flow hazard risk using BN (Bayesian Network) and domain knowledge. Based on the records of debris flow hazards and geomorphological/environmental data for the Chinese mainland, approaches based on BN, SVM (Support Vector Machine) and ANN (Artificial Neural Network) were compared. BN provided the highest values of hazard detection probability, precision, and AUC (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve). The BN model is useful for mapping and assessing debris flow hazard risk on a national scale. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The adaptive extended set-membership filter (AESMF) for nonlinear ellipsoidal estimation suffers a mismatch between real process noise and its set boundaries, which may result in unstable estimation. In this paper, a MIT method-based adaptive set-membership filter, for the optimization of the set boundaries of process noise, is developed and applied to the nonlinear joint estimation of both time-varying states and parameters. As a result of using the proposed MIT-AESMF, the estimation effectiveness and boundary accuracy of traditional AESMF are substantially improved. Simulation results have shown the efficiency and robustness of the proposed method.
We develop and demonstrate a classification system that is made up of several support vector machine (SVM) classifiers, which can be applied to select quasar candidates from large sky survey projects, such as the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS), the UK Infrared Telescope Infrared Deep Sky Survey (UKIDSS) and the Galaxy Evolution Explorer (GALEX). Here, we present in detail a method for constructing this SVM classification system. When the SVM classification system works on the test set to predict quasar candidates, it acquires an efficiency of 93.21 per cent and a completeness of 97.49 per cent. In order to further prove the reliability and feasibility of this system, two chunks are randomly chosen to compare its performance with that of the XDQSO method used for the SDSS-III's Baryon Oscillation Spectroscopic Survey (BOSS). The experimental results show that there is distinct overlap between the quasar candidates selected by this system and those extracted by the XDQSO technique in the dereddened i-band magnitude range between 17.75 and 22.45, especially in the interval of dereddened i-band magnitude <20.0. In the two test areas, 57.38 and 87.15 per cent of the quasar candidates predicted by the system are also targeted by the XDQSO method. Similarly, the prediction of subcategories of quasars according to redshift achieves a high level of overlap with these two approaches. Depending on the effectiveness of this system, the SVM classification system can be used to create an input catalogue of quasars for the Guoshoujing Telescope (also called the Large Sky Area Multi-Object Fiber Spectroscopic Telescope) or other spectroscopic sky survey projects. In order to obtain a higher confidence of quasar candidates, the cross-results from the candidates selected by this SVM system and by the XDQSO method can be used.
Objective To develop a new technique for assessing the risk of birth defects, which are a major cause of infant mortality and disability in many parts of the world.
For miniaturized mobile robots that aim at exploring unknown environments, no-contact 3D sensing of basic geometrical features of the surrounding environment is one of the most important capabilities for survival and the mission. In this paper, a low-cost active 3D triangulation laser scanner for indoor navigation of miniature mobile robots is presented. It is implemented by moving both a camera and a laser diode together on the robot's movable part. The movable part is actuated by a servo motor through a gear train to achieve +/- 90 degrees scanning view angle. The software module includes image processing and data post-processing. 3D world coordinates are calculated from 2D image coordinates based on the triangulation principle. With a 3D laser scanning method, navigation algorithms for obstacle avoidance and gateway passing are proposed. Finally, experiments are conducted to validate performance of the scanner and to test the efficiency of the navigation algorithms. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Due to the existence of various uncertainties, the design of distributed estimation algorithms with robustness and high accuracy is an urgent demand for sensor network applications. This paper is aimed at investigating the design of distributed parameter estimation algorithms and the analysis of their convergence properties in uncertain sensing and communication environments. Consensus-based distributed parameter estimation algorithms for both discrete-time and continuous-time cases are established, which are suitable for unreliable communication networks with stochastic communication noises, random link gains and Markovian signal losses. Under mild conditions on stochastic noises, gain function and topology-switching Markov chain, we establish both the mean square and almost sure convergence of the designed algorithms by use of probability limit theory, algebraic graph theory, stochastic differential equation theory and Markov chain theory. The effect of sensor-dependent gain functions on the convergence of the algorithm is also analyzed.
Human body orientation estimation from microinertial/magnetic sensor units is highly important for synthetic environments, robotics, and other human-computer interaction applications. In practice, the main challenge is how to deal with linear acceleration interference and magnetic disturbance which always cause significant attitude-estimation errors. In this paper, we present a novel quaternion-based Kalman filter with vector selection scheme for accurate human body orientation estimation using an inertial/magnetic sensor unit. In the proposed algorithm, the gyroscope measurement is used as an input to construct the linear process equation, and the accelerometer and magnetometer measurements are manipulated to establish the linear pseudomeasurement equation. A linear Kalman filter is then deployed to estimate the body orientation. In the Kalman filter framework, a vector selection scheme is designed to protect the algorithm against undesirable conditions such as temporary intensive movement and magnetic disturbance and enable it to acquire more accurate orientation estimation. The experimental results have shown that the proposed algorithm can provide accurate attitude estimations with regard to the ground truth.
The objective of this study was to build an effective and reliable method based on the artificial neural network (ANN) model for unfolding neutron spectrum. The number of counts measured by 15 Bonner spheres and 281 neutron spectra were selected as the database. After singular value decomposition was used to determine the relationship between Bonner spheres, 11 Bonner spheres were chosen as input descriptors. The three-layer feedforward neural networks (11-5-1) were employed to predict the spectrum in each energy bin. Using information entropy theory and the results of the ANN calculations, the sensitivity of each sphere to the entropy of the spectrum was quantitatively analyzed. The spectra results were compared with the results obtained using the maximum entropy method (MEM). The averaged root mean-square-error (MSE) of the MEM output and the desired spectra was 0.012; the averaged MSE of the ANN calculations was 0.006. The MSE results indicate that the 11-5-1 ANN models are able to accurately and reliably predict neutron spectra. The ANN model developed in this study to unfold neutron spectra from the counts measured by 11 Bonner spheres provides an alternative method for unfolding spectrum. The singular value decomposition is an effective method for the analysis of data obtained from Bonner spheres and the neutron spectra. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A hybrid rainfall-runoff model that integrates artificial neural networks (ANNs) with Xinanjiang (XAJ) model was proposed in this study. The writers extracted the digital drainage network and subcatchments from digital elevation model (DEM) data considering the spatial distribution of rain-gauge stations. Then the semidistributed XAJ model was established based on DEM. Considering the runoff routing cannot be calculated by the linear superposition of the route runoff from all subcatchments, artificial neural networks as effective tools in nonlinear mapping are employed to explore nonlinear transformations of the runoff generated from the individual subcatchments into the total runoff at the entire watershed outlet. The integrated approach has been demonstrated as feasible and was applied successfully in the Yanduhe watershed, the upper tributary of Yangtze River Basin. The results indicated that the approach of integrating back-propagation ANN with semidistributed XAJ model may achieve the promising results with acceptable accuracy for flood events simulation and forecast. DOI: 10.1061/(ASCE)HE.1943-5584.0000548. (C) 2012 American Society of Civil Engineers.
In this paper, an approach based on linear programming (LP) is proposed for path planning in three-dimensional space, in which an aerial vehicle is requested to pursue a target while avoiding static or dynamic obstacles. This problem is very meaningful for many aerial robots, such as unmanned aerial vehicles. First, the tasks of target-pursuit and obstacle-avoidance are modelled with linear constraints in relative coordination according to LP formulation. Then, two weighted cost functions, representing the optimal velocity resolution, are integrated into the final objective function. This resolution, defined to achieve the optimal velocity, deals with the optimization of a pair of orthogonal vectors. Some constraints, such as boundaries of the vehicle velocity, acceleration, sensor range, and flying height, are considered in this method. A number of simulations, under static and dynamic environments, are carried out to validate the performance of generating optimal trajectory in real time. Compared with ant colony optimization algorithm and genetic algorithm, our method has less parameters to tune and can achieve better performance in real-time application.
Estimating particulate matter (PM) from space is not straightforward and is mainly achieved using the aerosol optical depth (ADD) retrieved from satellite sensors. However. AOD is a columnar measure, whereas PM is a ground observation. Linking AOD and PM remains a challenge for air pollution monitoring. In this study, a back-propagation artificial neural network (BP ANN) algorithm trained with Bayesian regularization that benefited from the synergy of satellite- and ground-based observations was developed to estimate PM in eastern China. Correlations between observed and estimated PM (denoted by R) during the period 2007-2008 over seven individual sites were investigated comprehensively in terms of site scale, seasonal scale, particle size, and spatio-temporal scale. With respect to site differences, the Nanning site had the best results with 80.3% of cases having a moderate or strong correlation value. Lushan and Zhengzhou followed with results of 75% and 73.8%, respectively. Furthermore, R exhibited a significant seasonal variation characterized by a maximum (80.2%) during the autumn period, whereas no obvious differences in R for various spatial scales (spatial averaging schemes of MODIS AOD) were observed. Likewise, the ratio value for daily averaging (64.7%) was found to be better than those for the two hourly temporal averaging schemes (i.e., 61.1% for HA1 and 58.3% for HA2). In addition, PM, estimated from the ANN algorithm developed in this study had slightly higher R values than did PM10 and PM2.5. The planetary boundary layer (PBL) effect on PM estimation was decreasing R with increasing height of the PBL, which is consistent with previous studies. Comparisons of observed versus estimated PM10 mass time series implied that the ANN algorithm basically reproduced the observed PM concentration. However. PM mass at certain sites may be underestimated under the condition of high observed PM concentrations. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Distributed control of the multi-agent systems involving a major agent and a large number of minor agents is investigated in this paper. There exist Markov jump parameters in the dynamic equation and random parameters in the index functions. The major agent has salient impact on others. Each minor agent merely has tiny influence, while the average effect of all the minor agents is not negligible, which plays a significant role in the evolution and performance index of each agent. Besides the state of the major agent, each minor agent can only access to the information of its state and parameters. Based on the mean field (MF) theory, a set of distributed control laws is designed. By the probability limit theory, the uniform stability of the closed-loop system and the upper bound of the corresponding index values are obtained. Via a numerical example, the consistency of the MF estimation and the influence of the initial state values and parameters on the index values are demonstrated. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The main purpose of this study is to compare the following six GIS-based models for susceptibility mapping of earthquake triggered landslides: bivariate statistics (BS), logistic regression (LR), artificial neural networks (ANN), and three types of support vector machine (SVM) models that use the three different kernel functions linear, polynomial, and radial basis. The models are applied in a tributary watershed of the Fu River, a tributary of the Jialing River, which is part of the area of China affected by the May 12, 2008 Wenchuan earthquake. For this purpose, eleven thematic data layers are used: landslide inventory, slope angle, aspect, elevation, curvature, distance from drainages, topographic wetness index (TWI), distance from main roads, distance from surface rupture, peak ground acceleration (PGA), and lithology. The data layers were specifically constructed for analysis in this study. In the subsequent stage of the study, susceptibility maps were produced using the six models and the same input for each one. The validations of the resulting susceptibility maps were performed and compared by means of two values of area under curve (AUC) that represent the respective success rates and prediction rates. The AUC values obtained from all six results showed that the LR model provides the highest success rate (AUC = 80.34) and the highest prediction rate (AUC = 80.27). The SVM (radial basis function) model generates the second-highest success rate (AUC = 80.302) and the second-highest prediction rate (AUC = 80.151), which are close to the value from the LR model. The results using the SVM (linear) model show the lowest AUC values. The AUC values from the SVM (linear) model are only 72.52 (success rates) and 72.533 (prediction rates). Furthermore, the results also show that the radial basis function is the most appropriate kernel function of the three kernel functions applied using the SVM model for susceptibility mapping of earthquake triggered landslides in the study area. The paper also provides a counter-example for the widely held notion that validation performances of the results from application of the models obtained from soft computing techniques (such as ANN and SVM) are higher than those from applications of LR and BA models. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Data-driven model is highly desirable for industrial data analysis in case the experimental model structure is unknown or wrong, or the concerned system has changed. Symbolic regression is a useful method to construct the data-driven model (regression equation). Existing algorithms for symbolic regression such as genetic programming and grammatical evolution are difficult to use due to their special target programming language (i.e., LISP) or additional function parsing process. In this paper, a new evolutionary algorithm, parse-matrix evolution (PME), for symbolic regression is proposed. A chromosome in PME is a parse-matrix with integer entries. The mapping process from the chromosome to the regression equation is based on a mapping table. PME can easily be implemented in any programming language and free to control. Furthermore, it does not need any additional function parsing process. Numerical results show that PME can solve the symbolic regression problems effectively. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Accurate human movement estimation techniques are widely used in various applications, such as robotics, human-machine interaction, sports, and rehabilitation. With rapid advances in microsensors, human movement estimation using wearable micro inertial sensors has become an active research topic. The main challenges for the wearable sensor motion estimation are the inertial sensor drift problem and the linear acceleration interference problem. Because of the agility in movement, upper limb motion estimation has been regarded as the most difficult problem in human motion estimation. In this paper, we take the upper limb as our research subject and present a novel upper limb movement estimation algorithm to cope with these two challenges by adaptive fusion of sensor data and human skeleton constraint. In the sensor fusion part, a quaternion-based unscented Kalman filter is invoked to fuse the gyroscope, accelerometer, and magnetometer measurement information. In the Kalman filter framework, an acceleration interference detection scheme is implemented based on the exponentially discounted average of the normalized innovation squared (NIS). According to the detection results, the process and measurement noise levels are scaled up or down automatically. To further compensate for the drift, we present a novel solution by modeling geometrical constraint in the elbow joint and fuse the constraint to revise the sensor fusion results and improve the estimation accuracy. The experimental results have shown that the proposed algorithm can provide accurate results in comparison to the BTS SMART-D optical motion tracker.
Discrete wavelet transform (DWT) is commonly used for wavelet threshold de-noising, wavelet decomposition, wavelet aided hydrologic series simulation and prediction, as well as many other hydrologic time series analyses. However, its effectiveness in practice is influenced by many key factors. In this paper the "reference energy function" was firstly established by operating Monte-Carlo simulation to diverse noise types; then, energy function of hydrologic series was compared with the reference energy function, and four key issues on discrete wavelet decomposition were studied and the methods for solving them were proposed, namely wavelet choice, decomposition level choice, wavelet threshold de-noising and significance testing of DWT, based on which a step-by-step guide to discrete wavelet decomposition of hydrologic series was provided finally. The specific guide is described as: choose appropriate wavelet from the recommended wavelets and according to the statistical characters relations among original series, de-noised series and removed noise; choose proper decomposition levels by analyzing the difference between energy function of the analyzed series and reference energy function; then, use the chosen wavelet and decomposition level, estimate threshold according to series' complexity and set the same threshold under each level, and use the mid-thresholding rule to remove noise; finally, conduct significance testing of DWT by comparing energy function of the de-noised series with the reference energy function. Analyses of both synthetic and observed series indicated the better performance and easier operability of the proposed guide compared with those methods used presently. Following the guide step by step, noise and different deterministic components in hydrologic series can be accurately separated, and uncertainty can also be quantitatively estimated, thus the discrete wavelet decomposition result of series can be improved.
The impoundment of the Three Gorges Dam (TGD) has disturbed the hydrological regime downstream and has directly affected the relationship between the Yangtze River and Dongting Lake. To trace the realistic and potential impacts, this paper examined the changes of the channel morphology and sedimentology caused by the TGD through a field survey on the channel cross-sections and then analyzed the impact on lake water level through BP neural networks. The possible impacts on inundation patterns in lake wetlands were studied based on the lake basin DEM. The results indicate that drastic sediment decline and severe channel erosion are putting considerable pressure on the river and lake. Changing river channels are evident in some monitoring cross-sections. Dongting Lake, for the first time, changed from trapping to supplying net sediment to the Yangtze River. During the water storage periods of the TGD, the water level decreased 2.03 m in 2006 and 2.11 m in 2009 at the outlet of the lake, with extreme decreases up to 3.30 m and 3.02 m, respectively. These changes have inevitably induced alterations in the inundation patterns of the lake wetlands, which in turn have disturbed the ecological function of lake wetlands as habitats for both migratory birds and aquatic fish. The serious droughts in Dongting Lake recent years were largely connected with the above changes. Therefore, proper attention should be paid to this occurrence.
This paper investigates the problem of velocity-free attitude coordination control for a group of spacecraft with attitude represented by modified Rodrigues parameters. The communication flow among neighbor spacecraft is described by an undirected connected graph. Two velocity-free attitude coordination control schemes are proposed. By employing linear reduced-order observers, robust control and Chebyshev neural networks, the first velocity-free control scheme allows a group of spacecraft to simultaneously align their attitude and track a time-varying reference attitude even in the presence of unknown mass moment of inertia matrix and external disturbances, where all spacecraft have access to the common reference attitude. The second control law guarantees a group of spacecraft to track a time-varying reference attitude without requiring velocity measurements even when the common reference attitude is available only to a subset of the group members. Furthermore, the stability of the overall closed-loop system for both control laws is guaranteed by a Lyapunov-based approach. Finally, numerical simulations are presented to demonstrate the performance of the proposed controllers.
This brief addresses the security issues of data transmitted in networked control systems (NCSs), especially confidentiality, integrity and authenticity. A secure networked predictive control system (SNPCS) architecture is presented, which integrates the Data Encryption Standard (DES) algorithm, Message Digest (MD5) algorithm, timestamp strategy, and recursive networked predictive control (RNPC) method. The former three parts are used to form a secure transmission mechanism between the controller side and the plant side, which is responsible for enforcing the data confidentiality and checking the data integrity and authenticity. To guarantee the control system performance when suffering from deception attacks, the RNPC method based on round-trip time delays is proposed to compensate for the adverse effects introduced by the deception attacks as well as the network communication constraints, such as time-varying network delay, packet disorder and packet dropout. A theoretical result using the switched system theory is obtained for the closed-loop stability of the RNPC system. Practical experiments are performed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed SNPCS.
A new automatic identification system has been designed to identify insect specimen images at the order level. Several relative features were designed according to the methods of digital image progressing, pattern recognition and the theory of taxonomy. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) and a support vector machine (SVM) are used as pattern recognition methods for the identification tests. During tests on nine common orders and sub-orders with an artificial neural network, the system performed with good stability and accuracy reached 93%. Results from tests using the support vector machine further improved accuracy. We also did tests on eight- and nine-orders with different features and based on these results we compare the advantages and disadvantages of our system and provide some advice for future research on insect image recognition. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Case-based reasoning (CBR) method has been widely used to study environmental and spatial problems since the 1990s. Spatial relations among geographic cases and between case and environment (hereinafter to be referred as spatial relations) were not well considered in most of the previous studies. However, these relations are extremely important in geographic problems solving as spatially closer geographic phenomena are more likely to be similar than those are disperse in space. This paper presents a generic application paradigm based on CBR to solve geographic problems. To better consider the spatial relations, a new component of "Geographic Environment" was added into the standard CBR case representation model. A rough set-based algorithm was used to prune essential spatial relations, which were then used to extract key decision rules and retrieve similar past cases for the new problem. Standard CBR directly accepts the solution that was derived from the past similar cases to solve the new problem. In this study, however, solution was not accepted unless it also satisfied the key decision rules. An illustrating example was used to demonstrate how the general framework and algorithm could be applied to solve geographic problems. The algorithm was then evaluated by examining two datasets, the 2003 land use in the Pearl River Estuary and land use change from 1995 to 2000 in Zhuhai city of China. These two datasets were also examined by the standard CBR and Bayesian Networks (BNs) methods. Comparison of the stratified 10-fold cross-validation results indicated that the algorithm proposed in this study yielded statistically significant higher overall validation accuracy than the standard CBR and BNs methods. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A stochastic cellular automaton (CA) model for activated sludge system (ASS) is formulated by a series of transition functions upon realistic treatment processes, and it is tested by comparing with ordinary differential equations (ODEs) of ASS. CA system performed by empirical parameters can reflect the characteristics of fluctuation, complexity and strong non-linearity of ASS. The results show that the predictions of CA are approximately similar to the dynamical behaviors of ODEs. Based on the extreme experimental system with complete cell recycle in model validation, the dynamics of biomass and substrate are predicted accurately by CA, but the large errors exist in ODEs except for integrating more spatially complicated factors. This is due to that the strong mechanical stress from spatial crowding effect is ignored in ODEs, while CA system as a spatially explicit model takes account of local interactions. Despite its extremely simple structure, CA still can capture the essence of ASS better than ODEs, thus it would be very useful in predicting long-term dynamics in other similar systems.
Synchronization between the driving network and the responding network (outer synchronization) has attracted increasing attention from various fields of science and engineering. In this paper, we address outer synchronization of complex networks with delays. Both the cases of coupling delay and node delay are considered. Employing the impulsive control method which is simple, efficient, low cost, and easy to implement in practical applications, we obtain some sufficient conditions of outer synchronization. It indicates that outer synchronization can be achieved if the maximal impulsive intervals are less than a critical value. Numerical simulations are also given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed impulsive control scheme.
Networks with multi-links are universal in the real world such as communication networks, transport networks, and social networks. It is important for us to investigate the control of complex dynamical network with multi-links. In this paper, both local and global stabilities of dynamical network with multi-links are analyzed by applying adaptive control theory and mathematical tools, and some new criteria are proposed to ensure the pinning synchronization. We find that the number of pinned nodes satisfies an inequality for synchronization. Additionally, we solve the problem of how much the coupling strength we need to achieve network synchronization with one pinned node in the network system with multi-links. Finally, numerical examples are used to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Manifold mosaicing is arguably the most important class of image mosaicing methods. The existing manifold mosaicing methods work reasonably well only for scenes with simple plane structure and for images taken in a usual way such that the camera's motion direction is perpendicular to its optical axis. A novel manifold modeling theoretical framework is presented to unify the current image mosaicing methods. Based on this framework, an effective mosaicing algorithm is also proposed to mosaic tubular scenes which have failed most existing methods. We adopt a two-step shaping strategy to parallelize the optical flows and change the topological genus of the image strips by Mobius mappings and circular ring extending. We performed computational experiments via image sequences acquired from tubular scenes and obtained excellent panoramas. The theoretical framework and algorithms in this paper have immediate applications to many practical tubular scene mosaicing problems in medical imaging, industrial inspection, gaming, virtual reality and robotics.
A sensitive and efficient method for simultaneous trace detection of seven triterpene acids was developed and validated for analysis of rat plasma samples. The required micro-sampling of only 20 ut. blood reduced the difficulty in blood collection and the injury to animal. The whole pretreatment procedure was more conveniently finished within 26 min through the application of the semi-automated derivatization extraction method to biological samples. Seven analytes were rapidly separated within 30 min on reversed-phase Akasil-C18 column and quantified by fluorescence detector. Online ion trap MS with atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) source was used for further identification. The novel application of artificial neural network (ANN) combined with genetic algorithm (GA) to optimization of derivatization was performed and compared with the classical response surface methodology (RSM). Optimal derivatization condition was validated by multi-criteria and nonparametric tests and used successfully to achieve the rather high sensitivity (limit of detection: 0.67-1.08 ng/mL). The limit of reactant concentration (LORC) special for derivatization was studied and the lower values (2.53-4.03 ng/mL) ensured the trace detection. Results of validation demonstrated the advantages for pharmacokinetic study, such as higher sensitivity, better accuracy, easier pretreatment and shorter run-time. Pharmacokinetic study of triterpene acids after oral administration of Salvia miltiorrhiza extract to mice was conducted for the first time. The present method provided more sensitive and efficient alternative for the medical detection of bioactive constituents from herbal extract in the biological liquid. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper studies the decentralized kinematic control of multiple redundant manipulators for the cooperative task execution problem. The problem is formulated as a constrained quadratic programming problem and then a recurrent neural network with independent modules is proposed to solve the problem in a distributed manner. Each module in the neural network controls a single manipulator in real time without explicit communication with others and all the modules together collectively solve the common task. The global stability of the proposed neural network and the optimality of the neural solution are proven in theory. Application orientated simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A sensitive and efficient method using a semi-automated pretreatment device, pre-column derivatization, multivariate optimization and high performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence and mass spectrometric detection was developed and validated for the systematic determination of two biophenols in four herb-related samples (medicinal herb; herbal products in tablet, capsule and oral liquid forms) and plasma samples after oral administration to rat. Only micro-sampling of 20 mu L blood was needed for the analysis, and the pretreatment procedure including blood collection, derivatization by 10-ethyl-acridine-3-sulfonyl chloride (EASC) and injection to the sampling vials was efficiently finished in 10 min with no cumbersome and complicated operation. The novel application of artificial neural network (ANN) coupled with genetic algorithm (GA) to optimization of derivatization condition was executed and compared with the classical response surface methodology (RSM). The optimal condition for derivatization was validated by multi-criteria and nonparametric tests and used successfully to achieve the higher sensitivity (limit of detection: 0.6 and 0.8 ng/mL). The limit of reactant concentration (LORC) was put forward for derivatization method for the first time, and the lower values (2.0-2.7 ng/mL) provided the guarantee for the trace detection with the micro samples (<50 mu L) required. The results of validation including selectivity, sensitivity, linearity, accuracy, precision, recovery, matrix effect and stability demonstrated the advantages of this method. The pharmacokinetic study of major bioactive components salidroside and p-tyrosol in herb Rhodiola crenulata and its products was more conveniently performed in 25 min. The established method could be the sensitive and efficient alternative method for the systematic detection of bioactive components in series of drug carriers from raw herb to herbal products and to blood in medical research. And the approaches of the thorough study played the guiding role in seeking a novel analytical method. (C) 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
An intelligent-optimal control scheme for unknown nonaffine nonlinear discrete-time systems with discount factor in the cost function is developed in this paper. The iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm is introduced to solve the optimal control problem with convergence analysis. Then, the implementation of the iterative algorithm via globalized dual heuristic programming technique is presented by using three neural networks, which will approximate at each iteration the cost function, the control law, and the unknown nonlinear system, respectively. In addition, two simulation examples are provided to verify the effectiveness of the developed optimal control approach. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
After half a century research, the mechanical theorem proving in geometries has become an active research topic in the automated reasoning field. This review involves three approaches on automated generating readable machine proofs for geometry theorems which include search methods, coordinate-free methods, and formal logic methods. Some critical issues about these approaches are also discussed. Furthermore, the authors propose three further research directions for the readable machine proofs for geometry theorems, including geometry inequalities, intelligent geometry softwares and machine learning.
Increasing evidence shows that the human brain is a highly self-organized system that shows attributes of smallworldness, hierarchy and modularity. The "connectome" was conceived several years ago to identify the underpinning physical connectivities of brain networks. The need for an integration of multi-spatial and -temporal approaches is becoming apparent. Therefore, the "Brainnetome" (brain-net-ome) project was proposed. Diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (dMRI) is a non-invasive way to study the anatomy of brain networks. Here, we review the principles of dMRI, its methodologies, and some of its clinical applications for the Brainnetome. Future research in this field is discussed.
Reconfigurable manufacturing systems (RMSs) has emerged as an advanced system for applying Enterprise Systems (ES) in manufacturing enterprises to dynamically adapt to the changing market. Although it has been recognized that human-machine interaction plays a significant role in configuration design, especially for reconfigurable machines tools (RMTs), for the core of RMS, there are no platforms available for the harmonious interaction between human and computer, mainly because of the limitation of traditional artificial intelligence frame. In this paper, we present a human-machine design methodology for the configuration of RMTs based on imaginal thinking, a thinking style described as forming and comparison of images, which is radically different from traditional logical and intuitive thinking. The knowledge and experience that are highly relevant to mechanical design and the related information in logical deduction are organized as high dimensional images. By imitating human imaginal thinking, computer employs Lie subgroup or submanifold and Quotient kinematics to generate all possible configurations in the form of images, while humans make judgments and complete the optimization process through the imaginal human-machine interface. Both human's decision-making ability based on knowledge and experience and computer's high-speed logical computation are exploited to a full extent. This novel design methodology has illustrated its effectiveness by an example concerning the design of a pipe-cutting RMT.
Business intelligence (BI) is the process of transforming raw data into useful information for more effective strategic, operational insights, and decision-making purposes so that it yields real business benefits. This new emerging technique can not only improve applications in enterprise systems and industrial informatics, respectively, but also play a very important role to bridge the connection between enterprise systems and industrial informatics. This paper was intended as a short introduction to BI with the emphasis on the fundamental algorithms and recent progress. In addition, we point out the challenges and opportunities to smoothly connect industrial informatics to enterprise systems for BI research.
Leaf area index (LAI) is a crucial variable in all kinds of ecosystem, climate and crop yield models, describing the fluxes of energy, mass and momentum between the surface and the planetary boundary layer. To accurately determine the corn LAI, several methods of LAI, estimation have been evaluated in this investigation, including vegetation indices, principal component analysis (PCA), the neural network method (NN), the look-up table (LUT) inversion from PROSAIL model and the Hybrid model. Comparisons were conducted based on field-measured corn canopy hyperspectral reflectance and LAI data over northeastern China. In order to fairly compare the LAI estimation performance of different methods, the ground-measured data were separated into two sets (modeling data and validation data), except the LUT and hybrid methods of PROSAIL-based. The results indicated that the PCA method delivered the best performance for corn LAI estimation (with maximum R-2=0.814 and minimum RMSE=0.501) in this study. The hybrid model and EVI provided moderate results. Comparatively, the LUT and NN methods were less successful and NDVI provided the worst corn LAI estimation performance in this study. The PCA method shows great potential for performing well on corn LAI estimation from hyperspectral information. PCA can avoid the reflectance saturation defect of dense canopy in a certain extent, can utilize hyperspectral reflectance data much more effectively than other methods, and is not limited by the band numbers, it can also reduce noise and provide an great correlation with LAI from the hyper-bands or the multi-bands reflectance. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a finite horizon iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is proposed to solve the optimal control problem for a class of discrete-time nonlinear systems with unfixed initial state. A new is an element of-optimal control algorithm based on the iterative ADP approach is proposed that makes the performance index function iteratively converge to the greatest lower bound of all performance indices within an error is an element of in finite time. The convergence analysis of the proposed ADP algorithm in terms of performance index function and control policy is conducted. The optimal number of control steps can also be obtained by the proposed is an element of-optimal control algorithm for the unfixed initial state. Neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function, and compute the optimal control policy, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the is an element of-optimal control algorithm. Finally, a simulation example is given to show the effectiveness of the proposed method. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Many studies on land use change (LUC), using different approaches and models, have yielded good results. Applications of these methods have revealed both advantages and limitations. However, LUC is a complex problem due to influences of many factors, and variations in policy and natural conditions. Hence, the characteristics and regional suitability of different methods require further research, and comparison of typical approaches is required. Since the late 1980s, CA has been used to simulate urban growth, urban sprawl and land use evolution successfully. Nowadays it is very popular in resolving the LUC estimating problem. Case-based reasoning (CBR), as an artificial intelligence technology, has also been employed to study LUC by some researchers since the 2000s. More and more researchers used the CBR method in the study of LUC. The CA approach is a mathematical system constructed from many typical simple components, which together are capable of simulating complex behavior, while CBR is a problem-oriented analysis method to solve geographic problems, particularly when the driving mechanisms of geographic processes are not yet understood fully. These two methods were completely different in the LUC research. Thus, in this paper, based on the enhanced CBR model, which is proposed in our previous research (Du et al. 2009), a comparison between the CBR and CA approaches to assessing LUC is presented. LUC in Dongguan coastal region, China is investigated. Applications of the improved CBR and the cellular automata (CA) to the study area, produce results demonstrating a similarity estimation accuracy of 89% from the improved CBR, and 70.7% accuracy from the CA. From the results, we can see that the accuracies of the CA and CBR approaches are both > 70%. Although CA method has the distinct advantage in predicting the urban type, CBR method has the obvious tendency in predicting non-urban type. Considering the entire analytical process, the preprocessing workload in CBR is less than that of the CA approach. As such, it could be concluded that the CBR approach is more flexible and practically useful than the CA approach for estimating land use change.
Background: Previous studies on tumor classification based on gene expression profiles suggest that gene selection plays a key role in improving the classification performance. Moreover, finding important tumor-related genes with the highest accuracy is a very important task because these genes might serve as tumor biomarkers, which is of great benefit to not only tumor molecular diagnosis but also drug development.
In this paper, a neuro-optimal control scheme for a class of unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems with discount factor in the cost function is developed. The iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm using globalized dual heuristic programming technique is introduced to obtain the optimal controller with convergence analysis in terms of cost function and control law. In order to carry out the iterative algorithm, a neural network is constructed first to identify the unknown controlled system. Then, based on the learned system model, two other neural networks are employed as parametric structures to facilitate the implementation of the iterative algorithm, which aims at approximating at each iteration the cost function and its derivatives and the control law, respectively. Finally, a simulation example is provided to verify the effectiveness of the proposed optimal control approach.
Urban transportation system is a large complex nonlinear system. It consists of surface-way networks, freeway networks, and ramps with a mixed traffic flow of vehicles, bicycles, and pedestrians. Traffic congestions occur frequently, which affect daily life and pose all kinds of problems and challenges. Alleviation of traffic congestions not only improves travel safety and efficiencies but also reduces environmental pollution. Among all the solutions, traffic signal control (TSC) is commonly thought as the most important and effective method. TSC algorithms have evolved quickly, especially over the past several decades. As a result, several TSC systems have been widely implemented in the world, making TSC a major component of intelligent transportation system (ITS). In TSC and ITS, many new technologies can be adopted. Computational intelligence (CI), which mainly includes artificial neural networks, fuzzy systems, and evolutionary computation algorithms, brings flexibility, autonomy, and robustness to overcome nonlinearity and randomness of traffic systems. This paper surveys some commonly used CI paradigms, analyzes their applications in TSC systems for urban surface-way and freeway networks, and introduces current and potential issues of control and management of recurrent and nonrecurrent congestions in traffic networks, in order to provide valuable references for further research and development.
The iterative learning control (ILC) is considered for the Hammerstein-Wiener (HW) system, which is a cascading system consisting of a static nonlinearity followed by a linear stochastic system and then a static nonlinearity. Except the structure, the system is unknown, but the system output is observed with additive noise. Both the linear and nonlinear parts of the system may be time-varying. The optimal control sequence under the tracking performance is first characterized, which, is however, unavailable since the system is unknown. By using the observations on system output the ILC is generated by a Kiefer-Wolfowitz (KW) algorithm with randomized differences, which aims at minimizing the tracking error. It is proved that ILC converges to the optimal one with probability one and the resulting tracking error tends to its minimal value. Copyright (c) 2011 John Wiley and Sons Asia Pte Ltd and Chinese Automatic Control Society
Two artificial intelligence techniques, namely artificial neural network (ANN) and genetic algorithm (GA) were combined to be used as a tool for optimizing the covalent immobilization of cellulase on a smart polymer, Eudragit L-100. 1-Ethyl-3-(3-dimethyllaminopropyl) carbodiimide (EDC) concentration, N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) concentration and coupling time were taken as independent variables, and immobilization efficiency was taken as the response. The data of the central composite design were used to train ANN by back-propagation algorithm, and the result showed that the trained ANN fitted the data accurately (correlation coefficient R-2 = 0.99). Then a maximum immobilization efficiency of 88.76% was searched by genetic algorithm at a EDC concentration of 0.44%, NHS concentration of 0.37% and a coupling time of 2.22 h, where the experimental value was 87.97 +/- 6.45%. The application of ANN based optimization by GA is quite successful.
Human activity recognition by using wearable sensors has gained tremendous interest in recent years among a range of health-related areas. To automatically recognize various human activities from wearable sensor data, many classification methods have been tried in prior studies, but most of them lack the incremental learning abilities. In this study, an incremental learning method is proposed for sensor-based human activity recognition. The proposed method is designed based on probabilistic neural networks and an adjustable fuzzy clustering algorithm. The proposed method may achieve the following features. 1) It can easily learn additional information from new training data to improve the recognition accuracy. 2) It can freely add new activities to be detected, as well as remove existing activities. 3) The updating process from new training data does not require previously used training data. An experiment was performed to collect realistic wearable sensor data from a range of activities of daily life. The experimental results showed that the proposed method achieved a good tradeoff between incremental learning ability and the recognition accuracy. The experimental results from comparison with other classification methods demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method further.
We propose a framework for the coordination of a network of robots with respect to formal requirement specifications expressed in temporal logics. A regular tessellation is used to partition the space of interest into a union of disjoint regular and equal cells with finite facets, and each cell can only be occupied by a robot or an obstacle. Each robot is assumed to be equipped with a finite collection of continuous-time nonlinear closed-loop dynamics to be operated in. The robot is then modeled as a hybrid automaton for capturing the finitely many modes of operation for either staying within the current cell or reaching an adjacent cell through the corresponding facet. By taking the motion capabilities into account, a bisimilar discrete abstraction of the hybrid automaton can be constructed. Having the two systems bisimilar, all properties that are expressible in temporal logics such as Linear-time Temporal Logic, Computation Tree Logic, and A mu-calculus can be preserved. Motion planning can then be performed at a discrete level by considering the parallel composition of discrete abstractions of the robots with a requirement specification given in a suitable temporal logic. The bisimilarity ensures that the discrete planning solutions are executable by the robots. For demonstration purpose, a finite automaton is used as the abstraction and the requirement specification is expressed in Computation Tree Logic. The model checker Cadence SMV is used to generate coordinated verified motion planning solutions. Two autonomous aerial robots are used to demonstrate how the proposed framework may be applied to solve coordinated motion planning problems.
Background: Crowd-powered search is a new form of search and problem solving scheme that involves collaboration among a potentially large number of voluntary Web users. Human flesh search (HFS), a particular form of crowd-powered search originated in China, has seen tremendous growth since its inception in 2001. HFS presents a valuable test-bed for scientists to validate existing and new theories in social computing, sociology, behavioral sciences, and so forth.
The domains are the structural and functional units of proteins. With the avalanche of protein sequences generated in the postgenomic age, it is highly desired to develop effective methods for predicting the protein domains according to the sequences information alone, so as to facilitate the structure prediction of proteins and speed up their functional annotation. However, although many efforts have been made in this regard, prediction of protein domains from the sequence information still remains a challenging and elusive problem. Here, a new method was developed by combing the techniques of RF (random forest), mRMR (maximum relevance minimum redundancy), and IFS (incremental feature selection), as well as by incorporating the features of physicochemical and biochemical properties, sequence conservation, residual disorder, secondary structure, and solvent accessibility. The overall success rate achieved by the new method on an independent dataset was around 73%, which was about 28-40% higher than those by the existing method on the same benchmark dataset. Furthermore, it was revealed by an in-depth analysis that the features of evolution, codon diversity, electrostatic charge, and disorder played more important roles than the others in predicting protein domains, quite consistent with experimental observations. It is anticipated that the new method may become a high-throughput tool in annotating protein domains, or may, at the very least, play a complementary role to the existing domain prediction methods, and that the findings about the key features with high impacts to the domain prediction might provide useful insights or clues for further experimental investigations in this area. Finally, it has not escaped our notice that the current approach can also be utilized to study protein signal peptides, B-cell epitopes, HIV protease cleavage sites, among many other important topics in protein science and biomedicine.
Anxiety is a prevalent psychological disorder, in which the atypical expression of certain genes and the abnormality of amygdala are involved. Intermediate processes between genetic defects and anxiety, pathophysiological characteristics of neural network, remain unclear. Using behavioral task, two-photon cellular imaging and electrophysiology, we studied the characteristics of neural networks in basolateral amygdala and the influences of metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) on their dynamics in DBA/2 mice showing anxiety-related genetic defects. Amygdala neurons in DBA/2 high anxiety mice express asynchronous activity and diverse excitability, and their GABAergic synapses demonstrate weak transmission, compared to those in low anxiety FVB/N mice. mGluR(1,5) activation improves the anxiety-like behaviors of DBA/2 mice, synchronizes the activity of amygdala neurons and strengthens the transmission of GABAergic synapses. The activity asynchrony of amygdala neurons and the weakness of GABA synaptic transmission are associated with anxiety-like behavior.
Ontology technologies have been widely studied for their capabilities of semantic description and knowledge inference in a variety of application domains. The main obstacle for the advancement of ontologies is the immature building methods and construction principles. It is challenging to discover how to tune a large complete ontology to small applications and build domain ontologies pragmatically. This paper proposes a hierarchical tree method that provides guidelines to the building of a hierarchical geo-ontology and corresponding construction rules for different levels of ontologies. This hierarchical ontology construction method can be used to realize lower-level ontology building based on the restrictions of the upper-level ontology. It can also connect different levels of ontologies into a hierarchical structure. Based on the resulting hierarchical tree structure, the management and usage of ontologies becomes feasible and more efficient. Furthermore, to better elaborate the hierarchical relationships among the concepts surrounding the basic tree structure, this paper introduces Class Meta-Information (CMI) to OWL (Ontology Web Language) and uses Hierarchical Identification (HID) to draw conclusion on concepts' hierarchical relations. Examples, experimental simulation and comparative analyses are given to explain further the applications of this hierarchical tree method in the areas of ontology engineering.
A new semi-empirical model is presented for soil moisture content retrieval, using ENVISAT-ASAR and LANDSAT-TM data collaboratively. Firstly, a back propagation( BP) neural network algorithm(GA) is introduced, and a genetic algorithm is applied to optimize the weights of the node of BP neural network. Then the TM bands (TM3, TM4, TM6) and ASAR data(VV, VH, VH/VV) are taken as the input of the GA-BP neural network, and the output corresponds to the ground soil moisture. The partial field measurements of soil moisture are used as training samples to train the network and to achieve the map of soil moisture distribution. The field measurements are used to test the validity of the BP neural network algorithm and effectiveness of the active and passive remote sensing cooperative inversion. The comparison between the inversion using single data set(TM or ASAR), and the cooperative inversion of active and passive remote sensing data demonstrates that the new algorithm is more effective, and shows considerable potential in soil moisture retrieval by integrating active and passive remote sensing data.
Oil pollution to aquatic devices, especially to those oil-cleaning devices and equipment-repairing robots during oil spill accidents, has drawn great attention and remains an urgent problem to be resolved. Developing devices that can move freely In an oil/water system without contamination from oil has both scientific and practical importance. In nature, the insect water strider can float on water by utilizing the superhydrophobic supporting force received by Its legs. Inspired by this unique floating phenomenon, in this article, we designed a model device named "oil strider" that could float stably at the oil/water interface without contamination by oil. The floating capability of the oil strider originated from the huge underwater superoleophobic supporting force its "legs" received. We prepared the micro/nanohierarchical structured copper-oxide-coated copper wires, acting as the artificial legs of oil strider, by a simple base-corrosion process. The surface structures and hydrophilic chemical components of the coatings on copper wires induced the huge superoleophobic force at the oil/water interface, to support the oil strider from sinking into the oil. Experimental results and theoretical analysis demonstrate that this supporting force is mainly composed of three parts: the buoyancy force, the curvature force, and the deformation force. We anticipate that this artificial oil strider will provide a guide for the design of smart aquatic devices that can move freely in an oil/water system with excellent oil repellent capability, and be helpful In practical situations such as oil handling and oil spill cleanup.
The Model of Atmospheric Transport and Chemistry (MATCH) developed by the US National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) was used to calculate the aerosol optical thickness (AOT) over China in 2006, with emission source data of the Intercontinental Chemical Transport Experiment Phase B (INTEX-B) and NCEP/NCAR reanalysis data as inputs. The simulation results of AOT were then validated with observational data from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS), Chinese Sun Hazemeter Network (CSHNET), Aerosol Robotics Network (AERONET), and China Aerosol Remote Sensing Network (CARSNET) at more than 30 stations over China. The comparison results indicated that the high values of AOT in the areas such as the Sichuan basin and East and South China and the low values of AOT over the Tibetan Plateau and Northwest and Northeast China were reasonably simulated by the MATCH. This model tended to underestimate the AOT values in high-aerosol-loading areas but overestimate the AOT values in less polluted areas because there are still large uncertainties in the expression of emission sources, the description of the optical properties of aerosols, the treatment of cloud and precipitation, and the selection of grid resolution. The modeling results were consistent with the CSHNET, CARSNET, AERONET, and MODIS data in most parts of China, and the correlation coefficient of the monthly mean AOT between the model and the observation was 0.79 with CSHNET data at 23 stations, 0.51 with MODIS data, and 0.88 with data at 3 CARSNET stations and 2 other stations. All of them passed the significance test with alpha < 0.0001. The results demonstrated that the MATCH has the ability to simulate the characteristics of the AOT distribution and its seasonal variation over China.
Swarm intelligence is an umbrella for amount optimization algorithms. This discipline deals with natural and artificial systems composed of many individuals that coordinate their activities using decentralized control and self-organization. In general, multi-agent systems that use some swarm intelligence are said to be swarm intelligent systems. They are mostly used as search engines and optimization tools. The goal of this special issue has been to offer a wide spectrum of sample works throughout the world about innovative methodologies of swarm intelligence. The issue should be useful both for beginners and experienced researchers in the field of computational intelligence.
In this paper, the target aggregation is investigated for a multi-agent system consisting of second-order agents and multiple leaders. Sufficient conditions are proposed to make the agents approach the target set spanned by these moving leaders. With the condition on switching interconnection topologies, all mobile agents can asymptotically track the dynamical target set specified by multiple moving leaders with bounded error. Moreover, discussion on the case with static leaders is also given.
The information of protein subcellular localization is vitally important for in-depth understanding the intricate pathways that regulate biological processes at the cellular level. With the rapidly increasing number of newly found protein sequence in the Post-Genomic Age, many automated methods have been developed attempting to help annotate their subcellular locations in a timely manner. However, very few of them were developed using the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network information. In this paper, we have introduced a new concept called "tethering potential" by which the PPI information can be effectively fused into the formulation for protein samples. Based on such a network frame, a new predictor called Yeast-PLoc has been developed for identifying budding yeast proteins among their 19 subcellular location sites. Meanwhile, a purely sequence-based approach, called the "hybrid-property" method, is integrated into Yeast-PLoc as a fall-back to deal with those proteins without sufficient PPI information. The overall success rate by the jackknife test on the 4,683 yeast proteins in the training dataset was 70.25%. Furthermore, it was shown that the success rate by Yeast-PLoc on an independent dataset was remarkably higher than those by some other existing predictors, indicating that the current approach by incorporating the PPI information is quite promising. As a user-friendly web-server, Yeast-PLoc is freely accessible at http://yeastloc.biosino.org/.
Magnetotactic Bacteria (MTB) propel themselves by rotating their flagella and swim along the magnetic field lines. To analyze the motion of MTB, MTB magneto-ovoid strain MO-1 cells, each with two bundles of flagella, were taken as research object. The six-degrees-of-freedom (6-DoF) dynamic model of MO-1 was established based on the Newton Euler dynamic equations. In particular, the interaction between the flagellum and fluid was considered by the resistive force theory. The simulated motion trajectory of MTB was found to consist of two kinds of helices: small helices resulting from the imbalance of force due to flagellar rotation, and large helices arising from the different directions of the rotation axis of the cell body and the propulsion axis of the flagellum. The motion behaviours of MTB in various magnetic fields were studied, and the simulation results agree well with the experiment results. En addition, the rotation frequency of the flagella was estimated at 1100 Hz, which is consistent with the average rotation rate for Na+-driven flagellar motors. The included angle of the magnetosome chain was predicted at 40 that is located within 20 degrees to 60 degrees range of the observed results. The results indicate the correctness of the dynamic model, which may aid research on the operation and control of MTB-propelled micro-actuators. Meanwhile, the motion behaviours of MTB may inspire the development of micro-robots with new driving mechanisms.
Chest radiologists rely on the segmentation and quantificational analysis of ground-glass opacities (GGO) to perform imaging diagnoses that evaluate the disease severity or recovery stages of diffuse parenchymal lung diseases. However, it is computationally difficult to segment and analyze patterns of GGO while compared with other lung diseases, since GGO usually do not have clear boundaries. In this paper, we present a new approach which automatically segments GGO in lung computed tomography (CT) images using algorithms derived from Markov random field theory. Further, we systematically evaluate the performance of the algorithms in segmenting GGO in lung CT images under different situations. CT image studies from 41 patients with diffuse lung diseases were enrolled in this research. The local distributions were modeled with both simple and adaptive (AMAP) models of maximum a posteriori (MAP). For best segmentation, we used the simulated annealing algorithm with a Gibbs sampler to solve the combinatorial optimization problem of MAP estimators, and we applied a knowledge-guided strategy to reduce false positive regions. We achieved AMAP-based GGO segmentation results of 86.94%, 94.33%, and 94.06% in average sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy, respectively, and we evaluated the performance using radiologists' subjective evaluation and quantificational analysis and diagnosis. We also compared the results of AMAP-based GGO segmentation with those of support vector machine-based methods, and we discuss the reliability and other issues of AMAP-based GGO segmentation. Our research results demonstrate the acceptability and usefulness of AMAP-based GGO segmentation for assisting radiologists in detecting GGO in high-resolution CT diagnostic procedures.
Cognitive radio systems should not only have the ability to sense and exploit "frequency spectrum holes", but also the ability to sense and utilize "spatial spectrum holes". In this paper, we consider the issue of maximizing the throughput of the cognitive systems by fully utilizing "spatial spectrum holes" brought in by multiple cognitive users, in the scenario where a pair of licensed users and a cognitive broadcast system share multiple spectrum bands. By exploiting the channel reciprocity under the premise that the licensed system adopts the time-division-duplexing (TDD) mode, we propose a more practical cognitive access scheme that can sense the interference at the licensed user caused by the cognitive transmitter, based on the existing feedback signals from the licensed user to the licensed base station. Taking both interferences from the licensed base station to the cognitive receiver and from the cognitive transmitter to the licensed user into consideration, we investigate the optimal user scheduling and power allocation scheme that can maximize the ergodic sum rate of the cognitive system. We show that scheduling the user whose channel gain to interference and noise ratio (CGINR) is the largest for each frequency band is optimal. We also derive the dynamic power allocation scheme meeting the three practical constraints, i.e., the transmitter's average transmission power constraint, the power amplifier's instantaneous transmission power constraint, and the interference power constraint at the licensed user. The result shows that in different coherent time intervals and different frequency bands, the power allocation has a multi-level waterfilling structure. Theoretical analysis shows that the strategy scheduling user with the largest CGINR introduces significant performance improvement compared with the traditional strategy scheduling user with the largest channel gain to noise ratio (CGNR). We also illustrate the impact of power constraints and the number of users on system performance by simulation.
To achieve burdening process optimization of copper strips effectively, a nonlinear constrained multi-objective model is established on the principle of the actual burdening. The problem is formulated with two objectives of minimizing the total cost of raw materials and maximizing the amount of waste material thrown into melting furnace. In this paper, a novel approach called hybrid multi-objective artificial bee colony (HMOABC) to solve this model is proposed. The HMOABC algorithm is new swarm intelligence based multi-objective optimization technique inspired by the intelligent foraging behavior of honey bees, summation of normalized objective values and diversified selection (SNOV-DS) and nondominated sorting approach. Two test examples were studied and the performance of HMOABC is evaluated in comparison with other nature inspired techniques which includes nondominated sorting genetic algorithm II (NSGAII) and multi-objective particle swarm optimization (MOPSO). The numerical results demonstrate HMOABC approach is a powerful search and optimization technique for burdening optimization of copper strips. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
To handle fuzzy uncertainty in system modeling, nondeterministic finite automata have been generalized into fuzzy automata. After a reexamination of the notions of fuzzy automata in the literature, we ascertain that the fundamental property nondeterminism in nondeterministic finite automata has not been well embodied in the generalization. In order to reflect nondeterminism in fuzzy automata, we introduce nondeterministic fuzzy automata with or without epsilon-moves and fuzzy languages recognized by them. Like nondeterministic finite automata, nondeterministic fuzzy automata provide a mathematical representation of nondeterministic dynamic fuzzy systems. Moreover, we show that (deterministic) fuzzy automata, nondeterministic fuzzy automata, and nondeterministic fuzzy automata with epsilon-moves are all equivalent in the sense that they recognize the same class of fuzzy languages, which is an extension of the well-known equivalence among finite automata, nondeterministic finite automata, and nondeterministic finite automata with epsilon-moves. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this paper, the distributed containment control is considered for a second-order multi-agent system guided by multiple leaders with random switching topologies. The multi-leader control problem is investigated via a combination of convex analysis and stochastic process. The interaction topology between agents is described by a continuous-time irreducible Markov chain. A necessary and sufficient condition is obtained to make all the mobile agents almost surely asymptotically converge to the static convex leader set. Moreover, conditions on the tracking estimation are provided for the convex target set determined by moving multiple leaders. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Daily global solar radiation is an important input required in most crop models. In the present study, a sunshine-based model, the ngstrom-Prescott model, is employed to estimate daily global solar radiation on a horizontal surface during the growing season in Northeast China. Data from six control groups are used. The controls include the entire sequence, precipitation days, and non-precipitation days both during the growing season and year-round. Estimations are validated by comparing the calculated values with the corresponding measured values. The results indicate that estimating daily global solar radiation during the growing season using data only from the growing season is better than using year-round data. Classifying days with respect to precipitation and non-precipitation is also unnecessary. The performance on estimating daily global solar radiation during the growing season using the entire data in growing season performs best. A sunshine-based equation is obtained using our method to estimate growing season daily radiation for all meteorological stations in Northeast China. The approved approach is expected to be beneficial to crop models and other agricultural purposes.
Habitat modifications induced by humans severely impact biotic components of freshwater ecosystems. In China, shallow lakes in the Yangtze River basin are facing severe habitat degradation induced by pollution, habitat losing, macrophytes disappearing and fishery activities. Effectively modeling the fish communities on the basis of biotic and abiotic environmental descriptors would be helpful to understand the relationships between fish and their environment, and to develop suitable conservation strategies to sustain the biodiversity in these ecosystems. From 2007 to 2009, investigations were carried out on fish and their environment in 6 lakes distributed in the mid-reach of the Yangtze River basin. According to the CPUE values of each fish species from each sampling, 117 datasets were ordinated using self-organizing map (SOM). Fish communities were classified into three clusters of species assemblages, spatial and temporal distributions were showing in it. Seasonal changes in fish community were more obvious in vegetated habitats than in unvegetated areas. The total CPUE, fish diversity and species richness were significantly different among the assemblages (p < 0.01). Based on the indicative value of each species in each cluster calculated by Indval method, 16 species were identified as indicators: 13 indicators in cluster G1 are pelagic or benthopelagic fish, the only one indicator species in G2 is a tolerant species (Culter dabry B.), while the other two indicator species in G3 are demersal fish (Rhinogobius giurinus R. and Odontobutis obscurus T. & G.). These results are in agreement with the contributions of different ecological groups of fish in each assemblage in the trained SOM, pelagic and benthopelagic fish were found having more activities in spring and winter, while more activities of demersal fish were found in summer and autumn. Fish community assemblages, the total fish CPUE, diversity and species richness in those lakes were then predicted by 15 abiotic and biotic factors using random forest (RF) and classification and regression tree (CART) predictive models. The predicted assignment of each site unit to the correct assemblage had an average success of 74.4% and 60.7% in RF and CART models, respectively. The dominant variables for discriminating three fish assemblages were water depth, distance to the bank and total phosphorus. While the two important variables in prediction fish CPUE, diversity and species richness were lake surface area and water depth, density of rotifer and water depth, water depth and water temperature, respectively. The overall percentages of successful prediction varied from 56.5% to 67% utilizing leave-one-out for cross-validation tests. (C) 2011 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.
Experimental data have revealed that neuronal connection efficacy exhibits two forms of short-term plasticity: short-term depression (STD) and short-term facilitation (STF). They have time constants residing between fast neural signaling and rapid learning and may serve as substrates for neural systems manipulating temporal information on relevant timescales. This study investigates the impact of STD and STF on the dynamics of continuous attractor neural networks and their potential roles in neural information processing. We find that STD endows the network with slow-decaying plateau behaviors: the network that is initially being stimulated to an active state decays to a silent state very slowly on the timescale of STD rather than on that of neuralsignaling. This provides a mechanism for neural systems to hold sensory memory easily and shut off persistent activities gracefully. With STF, we find that the network can hold a memory trace of external inputs in the facilitated neuronal interactions, which provides a way to stabilize the network response to noisy inputs, leading to improved accuracy in population decoding. Furthermore, we find that STD increases the mobility of the network states. The increased mobility enhances the tracking performance of the network in response to time-varying stimuli, leading to anticipative neural responses. In general, we find that STD and STP tend to have opposite effects on network dynamics and complementary computational advantages, suggesting that the brain may employ a strategy of weighting them differentially depending on the computational purpose.
In this paper, active control of periodic vibration is implemented using maglev actuators which exhibit inherent nonlinear behaviors. A multi-channel feedforward control algorithm is proposed to solve these nonlinear problems, in which maglev actuators are treated as single-input-single-output systems with unknown time-varying nonlinearities. A radial basis function network is used by the algorithm as its controller, whose parameters are adapted only with the model of the linear system in the secondary path. Compared with the strategies in the conventional magnetic-levitation system control as well as nonlinear active noise/vibration control, the proposed algorithm has the advantage that the nonlinear modeling procedure of maglev actuators and the usage of displacement sensors could be both avoided. Numerical simulations and real-time experiments are carried out based on a multiple-degree-of-freedom vibration isolation system. The results show that the proposed algorithm not only could efficiently compensate for the actuators' time-varying nonlinearities, but also has the ability to greatly attenuate the energy of periodic vibration. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Solar radiation is the principal and fundamental energy for many physical, chemical, and biological processes. Estimation of solar radiation from sunshine duration is common employed when no direct observation of solar radiation is available. Particularly, the Angstrom-Prescott (A-P) model is widely used for its simplicity. This paper investigates the effect of time scale on the A-P parameters and the estimation accuracy using the data of 13 sites in Northeastern China. The results show that the A-P model can not be applied at annual, but less than seasonal time scale. Time scale effects the spatial variation of a and b parameters of the calibration curve, it has greater effect on parameter a than on b; while greater effect on temporal variation of b than that of a, and the differences of the parameters caused by time scales are generally large, however, the large differences of parameters do not result in significant difference of the estimation accuracy. Therefore, parameters at different time scales are interchangeable, the parameters calibrated at larger time scales can be applied to smaller time scales, and vice versa.
Research into acoustic recognition systems for insects has focused on species identification rather than individual identification. In this paper, the feasibility of applying pattern recognition techniques to construct an acoustic system capable of automatic individual recognition for insects is investigated analytically and experimentally across two species of Orthoptera. Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients serve as the acoustic feature, and alpha-Gaussian mixture models were selected as the classification models. The performance of the proposed acoustic system is promising and displays high accuracy. The results suggest that the acoustic feature and classifier method developed here have potential for individual animal recognition and can be applied to other species of interest. (C) 2012 Acoustical Society of America. [http://dx.doi.org/10.1121/1.3692236]
We present BayeSED, a general purpose tool for Bayesian analysis of spectral energy distributions (SEDs) using pre-existing model SED libraries or their linear combinations. The artificial neural networks, principal component analysis, and multimodal-nested sampling (MultiNest) techniques are employed to allow the highly efficient sampling of posterior distribution and the calculation of Bayesian evidence. As a demonstration, we apply this tool to a sample of hyperluminous infrared galaxies (HLIRGs). The Bayesian evidence obtained for a pure starburst, a pure active galactic nucleus (AGN), and a linear combination of starburst+AGNmodels show that the starburst+AGN model has the highest evidence for all galaxies in this sample. The Bayesian evidence for the three models and the estimated contributions of starbursts and AGNs to infrared luminosity show that HLIRGs can be classified into two groups: one dominated by starbursts and the other dominated by AGNs. Other parameters and corresponding uncertainties about starbursts and AGNs are also estimated using the model with the highest Bayesian evidence. We find that the starburst region of the HLIRGs dominated by starbursts tends to be more compact and has a higher fraction of OB stars than that of HLIRGs dominated by AGNs. Meanwhile, the AGN torus of the HLIRGs dominated by AGNs tends to be more dusty than that of HLIRGs dominated by starbursts. These results are consistent with previous researches, but need to be tested further with larger samples. Overall, we believe that BayeSED could be a reliable and efficient tool for exploring the nature of complex systems such as dust-obscured starburst-AGN composite systems by decoding their SEDs.
The moth-inspired plume-tracing strategies on a single REMUS underwater vehicle successfully tracked a Rhodamine dye plume over 100 m and declared its source location in near-shore ocean environments that are characterized by turbulence, tides, and waves. This paper expands moth-inspired plume tracing via a single vehicle to multiple vehicles. The new strategy includes a mechanism determining a leader vehicle to perform moth-inspired plume-tracing maneuvers and a formation algorithm controlling non-leaders to follow the leader during plume-tracing missions. The Monte Carlo studies evaluate the strategy in a virtual environment where a simulated plume with significant filament intermittency and meander is developed. Considering our application, our simulation studies address an autonomous underwater vehicle's kinematics and dynamics. The results demonstrate plume-tracing performance achieved by multiple vehicles, which automatically switch their roles superior to the single vehicle.
In this paper, we carry out a study about the main themes treated by the International Journal of Information Technology & Decision Making during its first 10 years (2002-2011). The themes are detected, quantified and visualized using an approach that combines performance analysis and science mapping. Bibliometric maps based on co-word analysis will help us to visualize the division of the journal into several subfields and their relationships, providing interesting insight into the main topics being discussed in the journal in these years. In addition, the study will show the most productive themes (according to published papers) and the most impacting ones (according to received citations).
In this paper, we investigate distributed multi-agent tracking of a convex set specified by multiple moving leaders with unmeasurable velocities. Various jointly connected interaction topologies of the follower agents with uncertainties are considered in the study of set tracking. Based on the connectivity of the time-varying multi-agent system, necessary and sufficient conditions are obtained for set input-to-state stability and set integral input-to-state stability for a nonlinear neighbor-based coordination rule with switching directed topologies. Conditions for asymptotic set tracking are also proposed with respect to the polytope spanned by the leaders.
In this paper, a finite-horizon neuro-optimal tracking control strategy for a class of discrete-time nonlinear systems is proposed. Through system transformation, the optimal tracking problem is converted into designing a finite-horizon optimal regulator for the tracking error dynamics. Then, with convergence analysis in terms of cost function and control law, the iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm via heuristic dynamic programming (HDP) technique is introduced to obtain the finite-horizon optimal tracking controller which makes the cost function close to its optimal value within an epsilon-error bound. Three neural networks are used as parametric structures to implement the algorithm, which aims at approximating the cost function, the control law, and the error dynamics, respectively. Two simulation examples are included to complement the theoretical discussions. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) is applied to learn to play Gomoku. The critic network is used to evaluate board situations. The basic idea is to penalize the last move taken by the loser and reward the last move selected by the winner at the end of a game. The results show that the presented program is able to improve its performance by playing against itself and has approached the candidate level of a commercial Gomoku program called 5-star Gomoku. We also examined the influence of two methods for generating games: self-teaching and learning through watching two experts playing against each other and presented the comparison results and reasons. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Runoff and evapotranspiration are two key variables of water budget in forest ecosystems. Modeling runoff and evapotranspiration dynamics play a vital role in assessing the hydrology cycle and function of forest ecosystems. Based on the hydrological and meteorological data collected over 20 years from January of 1988 to December of 2007 at Huitong National Forest Ecosystem Research Station, we used back propagation neural network (BPNN) and genetic neural network (GNN) models to simulate runoff and evapotranspiration of Chinese fir plantations for two watersheds located in Huitong county of Hunan Province, China. The purpose of this study was to accurately simulate runoff and evapotranspiration dynamics using both BPNN and GNN models. The model simulations of the runoff and evapotranspiration indicated that the GNN model concurrently possesses efficiency, effectiveness, and robustness. Moreover, the simulated results of GNN and BPNN model were compared with a multivariate statistics (M-slat) model. We found that the GNN model performed better than M-slat and BPNN models for modeling both runoff and evapotranspiration of Chinese fir plantations in China. (c) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Protein backbone torsion angles (Phi) and (Psi) involve two rotation angles rotating around the C-alpha-N bond (Phi) and the C-alpha-C bond (Psi). Due to the planarity of the linked rigid peptide bonds, these two angles can essentially determine the backbone geometry of proteins. Accordingly, the accurate prediction of protein backbone torsion angle from sequence information can assist the prediction of protein structures. In this study, we develop a new approach called TANGLE (Torsion ANGLE predictor) to predict the protein backbone torsion angles from amino acid sequences. TANGLE uses a two-level support vector regression approach to perform real-value torsion angle prediction using a variety of features derived from amino acid sequences, including the evolutionary profiles in the form of position-specific scoring matrices, predicted secondary structure, solvent accessibility and natively disordered region as well as other global sequence features. When evaluated based on a large benchmark dataset of 1,526 non-homologous proteins, the mean absolute errors (MAEs) of the Phi and Psi angle prediction are 27.8 degrees and 44.6 degrees, respectively, which are 1% and 3% respectively lower than that using one of the state-of-the-art prediction tools ANGLOR. Moreover, the prediction of TANGLE is significantly better than a random predictor that was built on the amino acid-specific basis, with the p-value, 1.46e-147 and 7.97e-150, respectively by the Wilcoxon signed rank test. As a complementary approach to the current torsion angle prediction algorithms, TANGLE should prove useful in predicting protein structural properties and assisting protein fold recognition by applying the predicted torsion angles as useful restraints. TANGLE is freely accessible at http://sunflower.kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp/similar to sjn/TANGLE/.
Models are useful tools to predict communities in watercourses based on the abiotic characteristics of their aquatic environment. For that purpose the habitat model was developed and optimized based on a dataset consisting of 300 samples collected from the upstream, middle and downstream reaches of the Lijiang River, China during two years (2009-2010). Corbicula fluminea was chosen as study object, because it is the dominant species in the study area and the distribution has eminent spatial features. Three methods, including logistic regression classification, decision trees and artificial neural networks were used to develop the model and the performance of all the modeling techniques were compared. The input variables of the model were: conductivity, turbidity, pH, water depth, velocity, manning coefficient, chemical oxygen demand. Finally, sensitivity analysis was used to get insight into the relative influence of the independent variables in the prediction process. The performances of the models were assessed through the percentage of correctly classified instances and the Cohen's kappa. The obtained results indicated that decision tree model with J48 algorithm was applied successfully in constructing a model for C. fluminea and subsequently applying it to evaluate the C. fluminea distribution. This research could give supports to the ecological regulation scheme and optimum power dispatching of reservoirs.
Complex software networks, as a typical kind of man-made complex networks, have attracted more and more attention from various fields of science and engineering over the past ten years. With the dramatic increase of scale and complexity of software systems, it is essential to develop a systematic approach to further investigate the complex software systems by using the theories and methods of complex networks and complex adaptive systems. This paper attempts to briefly review some recent advances in complex software networks and also develop some novel tools to further analyze complex software networks, including modeling, analysis, evolution, measurement, and some potential real-world applications. More precisely, this paper first describes some effective modeling approaches for characterizing various complex software systems. Based on the above theoretical and practical models, this paper introduces some recent advances in analyzing the static and dynamical behaviors of complex software networks. It is then followed by some further discussions on potential real-world applications of complex software networks. Finally, this paper outlooks some future research topics from an engineering point of view.
This paper is focused on formability of multi-agent systems (MASs). The problem is concerned with the existence of a protocol that has the ability to drive the MAS involved to the desired formation, and thus, is of essential importance in designing formation protocols. Formability of an MAS depends on several key factors: agents' dynamic structures; connectivity topology, properties of the desired formation and the admissible control set. Agents of the MASs considered here are described by a general continuous linear time-invariant (irt) model. By using the matrix analysis and algebraic graph theory, some necessary and sufficient conditions on formability of LTI-MASs are obtained. These conditions characterize in some sense the relationship of formability, connectivity topology; formation properties and agent dynamics with respect to some typical and widely used admissible protocol sets.
Tens of thousands of landslides were triggered by May 12, 2008 earthquake over a broad area. The main purpose of this article is to apply and verify earthquake-triggered landslide hazard analysis techniques by using weight of evidence modeling in Qingshui (ae...ae degrees ') River watershed, Deyang (a3/4 center dot e similar to(3)) City, Sichuan (a >> a center dot e) Province, China. Two thousand three hundred and twenty-one landslides were interpreted in the study area from aerial photographs and multi-source remote sensing imageries post-earthquake, verified by field surveys. The landslide inventory in the study area was established. A spatial database, including landslides and associated controlling parameters that may have influence on the occurrence of landslides, was constructed from topographic maps, geological maps, and enhanced thematic mapper (ETM+) remote sensing imageries. The factors that influence landslide occurrence, such as slope angle, aspect, curvature, elevation, flow accumulation, distance from drainages, and distance from roads were calculated from the topographic maps. Lithology, distance from seismogenic fault, distance from all faults, and distance from stratigraphic boundaries were derived from the geological maps. Normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) was extracted from ETM+ images. Seismic intensity zoning was collected from Wenchuan (ae +/- a center dot e) Ms8.0 Earthquake Intensity Distribution Map published by the China Earthquake Administration. Landslide hazard indices were calculated using the weight of evidence model, and landslide hazard maps were calculated from using different controlling parameters cases. The hazard map was compared with known landslide locations and verified. The success accuracy percentage of using all 13 controlling parameters was 71.82%. The resulting landslide hazard map showed five classes of landslide hazard, i.e., very high, high, moderate, low, and very low. The validation results showed satisfactory agreement between the hazard map and the existing landslides distribution data. The landslide hazard map can be used to identify and delineate unstable hazard-prone areas. It can also help planners to choose favorable locations for development schemes, such as infrastructural, buildings, road constructions, and environmental protection.
In this Letter, we propose a Hebbian learning rule with passive forgetting (HLRPF) for use in a chaotic neural network (CNN). We then define the indices based on the Euclidean distance to investigate the evolution of the weights in a simplified way. Numerical simulations demonstrate that, under suitable external stimulations, the CNN with the proposed HLRPF acts as a fuzzy-like pattern classifier that performs much better than an ordinary CNN. The results imply relationship between learning and recognition. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In an article of Nature in 2005, Couzin et al. put forward a discrete-time multi-agent system to investigate the mechanism of leadership and decision-making in animal groups on the move. The system consists of two kinds of agents: informed agents (called leaders) and autonomous agents (called followers). The leaders have the preferred but pertinent information about where to go, whereas the followers do not have such information, and they make movement decisions according to the local information of their corresponding neighbors. In this paper, we will consider the consensus decision-making under two cases: system with one kind of leaders and system with two different kinds of leaders. For the system with one kind of leaders, we will provide necessary condition and sufficient condition on the proportion of leaders for the expected consensus; while for the system with two kinds of leaders, we will show how the proportion of these two kinds of leaders affect the behavior of the system.
The Arctic and Antarctic, as the harshest environments on the earth, are of great importance to the nation. The extreme environments can be harmful, even fatal, to human beings and mobile robots. To execute missions on the Antarctic in place of human, the State Key Laboratory of Robotics of Shenyang Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences has designed three generations of Antarctic rovers. The hardware and software design and implementation of the third generation of Antarctic rover, which has been tested on the Antarctic during the 28th Chinese National Antarctic Research Expedition in 2011, will be presented in this paper. The preliminary experimental results, as introduced in the last part of the paper, suggest that the design and implementation of the hardware and software system can ensure efficiency and reliability of the rover working on the Antarctic.
In this paper, the objective is to develop a lower limb exoskeleton to produce a knee position trajectory that will enable a human shank to track any continuous desired trajectory (or constant setpoint). Given a desired trajectory of knee position, Lyapunov-based adaptive fuzzy control is developed to control the human quadriceps femoris muscle undergoing nonisometric contractions. The developed controller through the use of an integral Lyapunov function does not require a muscle model and can be proven to yield asymptotic stability for a nonlinear muscle model and an exoskeleton model in the presence of bounded nonlinear disturbances (e. g., spasticity, fatigue). The controller singularity problem is elegantly solved as it avoids the nonlinear parametrization from entering into the adaptive control and learning control. The performance of the controller is demonstrated through closed-loop experiments on human subjects. The experiments illustrate the ability of the exoskeleton to enable the leg shank to track single and multiple period trajectories with different periods and ranges of motion.
A high order polynomial interpolation method is proposed for the motion planning of the fast opening of the protection cover, which is based on its characteristics to ensure the steady ability. Fifth-order polynomial is chosen to complete the motion planning, and subsection search method is employed to set its acceleration. Optimal planning path is achieved after several subsection searching, and MATLAB simulation confirms the validity and efficiency of the proposed method.
A dynamic environment is defined that either the obstacles or the goal or both are in motion. There are many methods to deal with the problems of the path planning of the robot in dynamic environment. In the case of the dynamic environment, one method for path planning is to take the velocity of the goal and obstacles into account. In this paper, we propose a method for path planning in dynamic environments that uses a potential function which indicates the probability that a robot will collide with an obstacle. The traditional potential function method has many shortcomings that are not suitable for the robot in the dynamic environment. So a modified method of potential function is proposed, and artificial neural network (ANN) is also used in order to get the information of velocity and positions of the obstacles and goal. This paper will discuss how to define the attractive force and repulsive force, and how to predict the velocity of the obstacle and the distance between obstacle and the robot.
This paper addresses sweep coverage problem of multi-agent systems in the uncertain environment. With different communication interconnections, we present decentralized sweep coverage algorithms to guarantee the complete coverage of the given region by sweeping in parallel with workload partition. Moreover, the estimation of coverage time in different communication cases is related to the corresponding convergent rates on the basis of the interconnection graphs. Additionally, we give a counter-example to show that more inter-agent communication links may yield slower the convergent rate.
With the development of technology, humanoid robots gradually enter our life, not only for education, but helping people with housework and many other tasks, some of which are inevitable for human. But only few people know how to control and interact with a humanoid robot, which hinders the development of humanoid robot. So a human-robot interactive demonstration system is designed to help non-expert users to control the humanoid robot, Aldebaran humanoid robot Nao in this case. Users just need to use the most natural body gestures to interact with the robot. Microsoft Kinect is applied in this system to recognize different body gestures and generate visual Human-Robot interaction interface, then the controlling signals of different body gesture modules are sent to Nao through wifi, which can stimulate Nao to complete tasks. This kind of system aims to enrich the interactive way between human and robots and help non-expert users to control the robot freely, making Human-Robot interaction much easier.
The main purpose of this paper is to make table tennis robots complete the hit table tennis ball action by imitating human's behavior. The main strategy is to record a video of action which people played the table tennis, then analysis the video of the racket trajectory. The racket in the image is extracted by image processing when the each frame is captured in the video. Then three-dimensional coordinates of the center of the racket and racket posture are obtained via PnP positioning approach based on the intrinsic parameters of the camera. The table tennis robot will off-line learn to complete the imitation of basic actions of the racket trajectory and postures. A large number of experimental data is used to establish basic actions of table tennis robot.
In this paper, we consider the convergence property of asymmetric homogenous Deffuant-Weisbuch (DW) model, which is described by discrete-time equations driven by endogenously changing topologies. We focus on the dynamics analysis for this model when the agent selection probability is distributed independently and uniformly on the set of all agents. Although the opinions updated by a local rule are time-varying, we prove that all the opinions of the agents will convergent almost surely for any initial states, which verifies the aggregation characteristics of the asymmetric stochastic opinion dynamics models.
In this paper, the distributed output regulation problem of multi-agent linear systems with communication time delays is studied, by means of both dynamic state and output feedback control laws. Given bounded communication delays, distributed control laws are designed via linear matrix inequalities (LMI). Both delay-independent and delay-dependent conditions are discussed.
Nowadays, most industrial robots have been designed to be mechanically stiff with rigid link. When a robot with heavy payload is running in fast motions, the residual vibrations of the end-effector are primary caused by joint flexibility. Therefore, the flexibility of joint cannot be neglected. This paper presents a systematic approach to dynamic modeling and residual vibration mode analysis for an industrial robot with rigid links and flexible joints (RLFJ). First, the flexibility of the joint is modeled as a torsional spring and the dynamic equations for this robot are derived by using Lagrange's method. Then, to examine residual vibration properties of the system, numerical simulation is carried out. The following important conclusions are drawn from simulation results: (1) the proposed dynamic model can represent joint flexibility of industrial robot and the joint flexibility causes the residual vibration of the end-effector; (2) for a given RLFJ model, the residual vibration is mainly affected by the payload mass, path of the task and joint stiffness.
Although machine vision based robot navigation technology has become the mainstream nowadays, the traditional line following navigation still plays an important role because of its simple design and low cost. We have designed and tested a line follower robot and attended line follower robots competition. In order to address the common issues in the traditional robot line following navigation technology, such as weak environmental adaptability and vulnerability to the external ambient light, an improved line following navigation optimization algorithm have been proposed. The experiment results show that it improves the robustness and stability of the line following navigation robot control.
Focusing on the deficiencies of the existing IRT parameter estimation algorithm, the Resilient Backpropagation algorithm and variable learning rate learning algorithm are used in the basis of artificial neural network algorithm to improve the network convergence speed, and the genetic algorithm is used to solve the local minima problem, then the improved BP algorithm is generated. Finally, the standard BP algorithm and the improved BP algorithm are realized through MATLAB. Experiments show that the improved BP algorithm compared with the standard BP algorithm improves the network accuracy, and accelerates the training speed and becomes a better parameter estimation method.
A novel sparsely connected associative memory model with adaptive topology through annealed dilution is proposed in this paper. Aimed at overcoming the disadvantage of quenched dilution as random synapses disconnection of the existing methods, this new model takes the ideology of annealed dilution into account, and investigates the optimal synaptic dilution strategy under the constraints of limited amount of neurons and connections. Based on explicit theoretical analysis, this new model breaks the traditional manner of quenched dilution but instead constructs a learning task-dependent network topology through annealed way which is much closer to biological genuine system as possessing flexible adaptive structure and can also achieve better performance than the existing counterparts of the same class. The rationality and validity of the proposed model is validated from great number of experiments.
Artificial bee colony (ABC) algorithm invented recently by Karaboga is a competitive stochastic population-based optimization algorithm. However, solution search equation used in the original ABC algorithm is good at exploration but poor at exploitation. An improved ABC algorithm called Gbest-guided ABC (GABC) was introduced by researchers to improve the exploitation of ABC algorithm. In order to improve the GABC algorithm further, we propose an improved GABC algorithm with a linear weight called WGABC, and introduce a novel solution search equation used at scout bee stage of WGABC algorithm. Experimental results tested on a set of numerical benchmark functions show that WGABC can outperform ABC and GABC algorithms in most of the experiments.
This paper presents a content-based image retrieval (CBIR) system using multiple Hierarchical Temporal Memory classifiers. In order to improve the efficiency of image management and retrieval, the CBIR system proposed in this paper take advantage of Hierarchical Temporal Memory Algorithm which replicates the structure and function of the human neocortex. In this study, multiple Hierarchical Temporal Memory classifiers were used to provide an intelligent system that aims to understand a query image's category semantics, rather than the low-level image features for image indexing and retrieval. The system supports query by example image, the experiments based on Internet images show the efficiency of our method.
Walking motion generation and validation have been a significant issue for biped humanoid robot. To generate more natural walking motions, and confirm the validity rapidly, this paper presents work on walking motion planning and validity verifying. Based on spline interpolation method, the walking motions in both sagittal and lateral planes are generated. Dynamic model is constructed with the toolbox of SimMechanics for Matlab, and the interactive forces between robot's sole and ground are constrained in order to depict the state of balance. Dynamic model is driven by the walking motions which have been generated. The simulation and analysis demonstrate the validity of the motion which has been designed.
We proposed a spiking neural network (SNN) to detect moving target in video streams and classify them into real categorization in this paper. The proposed SNN uses spike trains to encoding information such as the gray value of pixels or feature parameters of the target, detects moving target by simulating the visual cortex for motion detection in biological system with axonal delays and classify them into different categorizations according to their distance to categorization's centers found by Hebb learning rule. The experimental results show that the proposed SNN is promising in intelligence computation and applicable in general visual surveillance system.
Driver can operate accelerator pedal and brake pedal to control the driving force and the braking force exerted on vehicle. For electric vehicles, it is possible that the braking force can be controlled by manipulating the accelerator pedal because of the regenerative braking function. In this paper, fuzzy control theory is employed to calculate regenerative braking force during releasing accelerator pedal based on the accelerator pedal opening and its change rate. Two modes are designed to coordinate the braking forces defined by accelerator pedal and brake pedal. One mode is engine braking imitation mode, and the other is auxiliary braking mode. The simulation results show that engine braking imitation mode can provide the similar driving feel to internal combustion engine vehicle. Auxiliary braking mode changes the traditional driving habit, but it has much higher regenerative efficiency. Auxiliary braking mode is suitable for the city driving condition which has frequent braking requirement.
This paper introduces an originally designed wheelchair robot equipped with a novel type of Variable Geometry Single Tracked Mechanism (VGSTM) that can actively control the robot shape and the track tension. So it becomes possible to improve the obstacle clearing capability of the robot by adapting the robot shape for the obstacle. Tip-over and slippage for track typed mobile robots are intractable problems especially in stair-climbing, which is the most fundamental obstacle clearing performance of the wheelchair robot, because of the complex track-stair interaction. In this paper, a tip-over and slippage stability criterion is derived based on the geometric model, the static model, and the track-stair interaction analysis. The stability state of the wheelchair robot during stair-climbing is obtained by simulation.
Object localization is a key issue of autonomous robots. RFID as a low cost, easy and effective technology has been widely used in localization and tracking situation. In this paper the ROS-based Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) combined with Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) is used for a coarse position by our robot called RCT-M. Then with the RFID tag information, we could query the object information in the object database. Finally, with the object information we utilize suitable laser feature detection to localize an object for a precise position. Some factors associated with RFID reader and RFID tags that can affect the object localization are also discussed.
It has been shown in recent robot planning control research that planning with simplified domain models is efficient and can be robust by detecting execution failures and replanning online. In this work, we alter the traditional HTN planning by interleaving with execution and extend it with a geometric planner for mobile manipulation tasks. We also build a memory-base which is comprised of several sub-memories. It can memory and manage mass patter-specific records, and supply data with the most efficient patter to the planner and various actuators. At the last, we present preliminary results on a mobile robot with manipulator and shows some advantage of IPAE when robot encounter uncertainty and need replanning, compared with the traditional HTN method.
In this paper, we present a duo-graph Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) method that enables visual-guided robot to efficiently and robustly generate consistent 3D map in a large-scale environment. Recently the conditional independent graph (CI-GRAPH) has been proved to be an efficient and robust method for solving the large-scale SLAM problem. However, it stems from extended kalman filter (EKF) SLAM that suffers from high computational load when number of the landmarks becomes large. Moreover, the big noise in the measurement can lead EKF SLAM far from convergence. These disadvantages are the cases in the visual-guided robot. To solve these problems, we propose a duo-graph structure that sustains the feasibility of a hierarchical graph-based SLAM framework. It implements two level graph-based SLAM: local and global SLAM. Utilizing the characteristic of the duo-graph structure, the local SLAM can efficiently localize itself while the global SLAM can accurately close loops in the large scale environment. In addition, our method can filter massive noisy visual features and eliminate mismatches in the global SLAM process. To demonstrate the superiority of our method, both simulation and real experiments are carried out.
A distributed output regulation problem is studied for a class of nonlinearly coupled multi-agent systems, taking a decentralized output-feedback form. By a networked internal model with a preassigned topology and a decentralized stabilization design, a distributed regulator is constructed and solves the problem. As an illustration, for a three-mass-three-spring system, a problem of synchronizing every agent motion to a harmonic oscillator can be solved.
This paper presents multi-robot simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) framework for a team of robots with unknown initial poses. The proposed solution is using feature based Rao-Blackwellised particle filter (RBPF) SLAM for each robot working in an unknown environment equipped only with 2D range sensor and communication module. To represent the environment in compact form, line and corner features (or point features) are used. By sharing and comparing distinct feature based maps of each robot, a global map with known poses is formed without any physical meeting among the robots. This approach can easily applicable to the distributed or centralized robotic systems with ease of data handling and reduced computational cost.
We consider a realistic wireless sensor deployment strategy by which mobile robot deploys sensor nodes when it moves along the linear backbone network with some branches. Because of its finite load capacity, the robot has to repeatedly move back to the position where all sensors are temporarily stored and reload sensor nodes, which leads to the robot has to travel the path many times and consumes more energy. We present a Shortest Traveling Path for Robot (STPR) algorithm by which the robot can reduce the traveling path and achieve the required coverage. All nodes are stored at the temporary starting point and mobile robot continuously loads sensors and moves to the destination, dropping some sensor to meet the basic coverage and connectivity requirements. The mobile robot arrives at the far intersection and deploys sensors along the branches in accordance with the algorithm rules, and then returns the recent branch when having enough sensors. Otherwise the robot moves back and deploys sensors on the back path. The robot reloads sensors and repeats the deployment process until all the branches and backbone is finished. The paper proves that the algorithm is effective compared with the common methods. Simulation results show that the algorithm effectively reduces the moving distance at the randomly generated network.
Tobacco loosening and resurgence process has strong nonlinearity and large delay-time ratio, and it is difficult to describe the process via accurate mathematical models. Thus, it is difficult to control the outlet tobacco moisture percentage (OTMP) for loosening and resurgence machine by operators. To solve these problems, combining the expert knowledge and operation experience, an intelligent control method based on case-based reasoning (CBR) is presented for loosening and resurgence machine. The intelligent control method is applied in certain cigarette plant which shows that the OTMP is controlled in the scope of target value and water consumption is reduced.
This paper presents a three-layer Artificial Neural Network as the short-term load forecasting model adopting the fastest back-propagation algorithm with robustness, i.e., Levenberg-Marquardt optimization, and moreover, the momentum factor is considered during the learning process. Based on predicted data by aforementioned model, size determination of energy storage system in terms of power rating and capacity is undertaken according to the desired level of shaving peak demand. The illustrative example in reference to the weather and power load data of office building from July to August in 2011 gets the results that the average relative error -0.7% and the root-mean-square error 2.79% which show aforementioned forecasting model can work effectively with the attractive percentage, i.e. 87.5%, of error within the acceptable one 2.79%; Furthermore, size determination of energy storage system adopting battery energy storage technology, i.e. 7.03kW/36.42kWh, is carried out to meet the desired peak shaving demand.
Flexible needle with bevel tip offers greater mobility for puncture surgery. This would expand the scope of the puncture surgery. However, motion planning for flexible needle is still a challenge due to its non-holonomic property and the complicated interactions with soft tissues. In this paper, a multilayer tissue model is constructed to simulate human tissue, and a dynamic programming is employed to plan the motion of flexible needle in the multilayer environment. In order to improve the security of the puncture process, the obstacles are fuzzed up. Then, an optimal algorithm is developed to determine a more suitable puncture angle. In addition, to deal with more complex environment, we develop a reverse algorithm to confirm the entry point in line with the target. Finally, we take some simulations to verify the proposed algorithms, and analyze the results.
Connectionist Central Pattern Generator models (CCPG)are helpful to understand how the CPG neural mechanism functions, and have relatively small complexity which makes them suitable for controlling snake-like robots. However,there are few CCPG models are constructed to generate the snake-like robot's three-dimensional gaits, which are important for adapation, and their gaits generation ability is also very inadequate. According to the CPG mechanism, a hierarchical CCPG model (HCCPG) with small complexity is proposed to implement the three-dimensional gaits better. The HCCPG has a two-layers structure, namely the basic rhythmic signal generation layer and the output signal modulation layer. The HCCPG can generate three-dimensional gaits well and is extendable. Based on the HCCPG, a three-dimensional gait control method is proposed. The simulations and experiments validate this method
This paper proposes a novel path planning method for a robot to climb on the deformable clothes surface. Based on the deformable characteristic of the clothes, the tension force of clothes is analyzed and the model of tension degree is established. A clothes climbing robot called Clothbot is composed of a two-wheeled gripper and a 2 Degrees of Freedom (DOF) tail. Based on the locomotion of this robot, the weights of tension degree and the locomotion characteristic are added into the A* algorithm. Combined with the two weights applied, the optimal path to the target for the Clothbot is obtained. The Clothbot has been developed to evaluate the algorithm. The simulation and the experiments have verified the feasibility of this method. In addition, The error state of the movement of the robot which is called side tumbling has been corrected by the motion of the 2-DOF tail.
One of the fundamental challenges in robotics is data-association: determining which sensor observations correspond to the same physical object. A common approach is to consider groups of observations simultaneously: a constellation of observations can be significantly less ambiguous than the observations considered individually. The Joint Compatibility Branch and Bound (JCBB) test is the gold standard method for these data association problems. But its computational complexity and its sensitivity to non-linearities limit its practical usefulness.
A novel wall-climbing robot mechanism designed for anti-hijacking task is presented. This mechanism consists of a negative pressure adhesion module, a vacuum suction module and a planetary-gear train. The design of biped-wheel hybrid locomotion mechanism, with the advantages of wheeled robots and legged robots, allows the robot to move fast and cross over obstacles easily. This design qualifies the robot for the motion of moving straight, turning in plane and crossing between inclined surfaces. Then the kinematics equations are derived and the locomotion modes are analyzed. Many experiments have been implemented and the results prove that the robot has such characteristics as rapid speed, excellent transition ability between inclined surfaces and curved surface adaptability. Therefore, this novel wall-climbing mechanism could be used for the application of inspection, surveillance and reconnaissance.
An assisted and secure interaction system is developed for 500kV EHV Power Transmission Line Inspection Robot. The challenges on amenity, assistance and security of interactive operation are emphasized. Due to the unpredictable line structure and the incomplete sensory, the robot is controlled in remote and locally autonomous mode. Based on the Finite State Machine (FSM), the automatic crossing interface is designed for protecting operators from memorizing redundancy sequences. Measures for friendly operating and avoiding errors are concerned. The architectures for fully autonomous are also engaged. The lab and field experiments validated the interaction system reliable and easy to use.
Special analysis of astronauts' motions must be carried out before extravehicular activities in order to design the missions and build the guideline for astronauts training. A method of modeling and simulation of astronauts' motions during extravehicular activities is developed under the complex system theory. The astronaut in space suit with the backpack is described with a complex system model. Then a coupled forward-inverse dynamics model is present to calculate the motions of every subsystem and the whole system dynamically without introducing additional variables for multi results problem; and a sensor-actor model is built for analyzing the torque on the joints generated by the space suit which expands the analytical space from two dimensions to three dimensions. Finally, in order to show the effectiveness and feasibility of the method, application examples of the constrained operations are presented. (C) 2012 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. Selection and/or peer review under responsibility of American Applied Science Research Institute
Inspired by the transmission of beans in nature, a novel swarm intelligence algorithm-Bean Optimization Algorithm (BOA) is proposed. In the area of continuous optimization problems solving, BOA has shown a good performance. In this paper, an improved BOA is presented for solving TSP, a typical discrete optimization problem. Two novel evolution mechanisms named population migration and priori information cross-sharing are proposed to improve the performance of BOA. The improved BOA algorithm maintains the basic idea of BOA and overcomes the shortcoming that BOA with continuous distribution function can not be applied to solve the discrete optimization problems. The experimental results of TSP show that the improved BOA algorithm is suit for solving discrete optimization problems with high efficiency.
North shore of Songhua river is the major development zone in carrying out the program of enlarging urban areas along river regions in Harbin. In this paper, the authors regard urban wetland of Harbin in north shore of Songhua river as the research object, B-P artificial neural network is applied to build the assessment model of the eco-environmental quality. The authors take 6 factors for samples to be evaluated, the well trained network is used to assess eco-environmental quality, The overall evaluation result being indicates that overall ecological environment mass of wetland in north shore of Songhua river is with difficulty qualified (0.6116), and by investigation and analysis, it turns out that the assessing results accord well with the actual situation, and provides the theory basis for the urban wetland healthy development. At the same time, applying artificial neural network model to wetland ecological environment quality evaluation, specifically for different ecosystem increasing network secret node or lays numbers come rise neural networks learning ability and train effect.
As the society industrialized, mathematical modeling and simulation become increasingly important in the product design. At present, the multidomain unified modeling with Modelica is a mainstream technology in the field of complex systems. Modeling of complex physical systems with Modelica often produces a high-index differential algebraic equation (DAE) system. It needs to be transformed to low-index DAE before solving it. The structure index reduction algorithm is one of the popular index reduction methods. But in some special circumstances, its solution may be incorrect. At present, combinatorial relaxation algorithm is a widely used method for solving the problem. Solving maximum weighted matching is one of important problems of the combinatorial relaxation algorithm. This paper describes the combinatorial relaxation algorithm and proposes three different implementations of Hungarian algorithm for the maximum weighted matching problem. The theory results are consistent with the experiment results,
In this paper, a velocity servo-based hybrid position/force control scheme for a grinding robot is presented. It simultaneously performs stable force control and exact position control along curved surface for a grinding robot. The force feedback loop changing the force to velocity, which will be used in the velocity servo-based robot, can control the force directly and has a faster response. The position feedback loop controls the grinding tool in a desired trajectory in Cartesian space. An overview of the control algorithm as well as the force data signal processing and the communication between force sensor and robot controller is described.
This paper presents an engineering method for analyzing the kinematics and inverse kinematics of a kind of Six-DOF industrial robots. Firstly, we build an engineering coordinate system for this kind robot, and then get expressions of closed-form solutions to both kinematics and inverse kinematics. From the process of deducing the expressions of closed-form solutions, we can analyze common singularities existing in workspace. Lastly, we design programs for both kinematics and inverse kinematics and simulate the movement of this kind robot. This method, compared with the structures of traditional solutions, is easier and understandability by leading into two conceptions- the position end and the tool end. What is more significant is that the robot can move safely when the wrist is under the singularity by using transitional stage. The transitional stage can make the tool of the robot move a line without join angel sudden change. The program solves the problem that all domestic industrial robots can not move when the wrist is under the singularity. This program is realized successfully on the welding robot of SIASUN Corporation.
ABox abduction is an important reasoning facility in Description Logics (DLs). It finds all minimal sets of ABox axioms, called abductive solutions, which should be added to a background ontology to enforce entailment of an observation which is a specified set of ABox axioms. However, ABox abduction is far from practical by now because there lack feasible methods working in finite time for expressive DLs. To pave a way to practical ABox abduction, this paper proposes a new problem for ABox abduction and a new method for computing abductive solutions accordingly. The proposed problem guarantees finite number of abductive solutions. The proposed method works in finite time for a very expressive DL, SHOIQ, which underpins the W3C standard language OWL 2, and guarantees soundness and conditional completeness of computed results. Experimental results on benchmark ontologies show that the method is feasible and can scale to large ABoxes.
The study of quasars is of great importance to the formation and evolution of galaxies and the early history of the universe, especially high redshift quasars. With the development and employment of large sky spectroscopic survey projects (e.g. 2dF, SDSS), the number of quasars increases to more than 200,000. For improving the efficiency of high-cost telescopes, careful selecting observational targets is necessary. Therefore various targeting quasar algorithms are used and developed based on different data. We review them in detail. Some statistical approaches are based on photometric color, variability, UV-excess, BRX, radio properties, color-color cut and so on. Automated methods include support vector machines (SVMs), kernel density estimation (KDE), artificial neural networks (ANNs), extreme-deconvolution method, probabilistic principal surfaces (PPS) and the negative entropy clustering (NEC), etc. In addition, we touch upon some quasar candidate catalogues created by different algorithms
A photometric redshift provides an estimate for the distance of an astronomical object, such as a galaxy or quasar, which is a powerful statistical tool for studies of evolutionary properties of galaxies, in particular of faint galaxies, since their spectroscopic data are hard or impossible to obtain. At present, there are amounts of methods to estimate photometric redshifts of galaxies and quasars. These methods are grouped into two kinds: template fitting methods and empirical methods. The commonly used techniques about these two kinds are narrated. The difference of approaches between quasars and galaxies are pointed out. The methods show superiorities in galaxies and maybe show poor performance in quasars. Template-fitting methods and empirical methods have their pros and cons.
This paper proposes a new formulation to address sweep coverage problem of multi-agent systems in the uncertain environment. The decentralized sweep coverage algorithm is shown to guarantee the complete coverage of the given region by incorporating two operations: workload partition and sweeping. The theoretical analysis is conducted to focus on the estimation of the upper bound for the error between coverage time and optimal time. Finally, numerical simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of the sweep coverage algorithms.
Geographic information system (GIS) is widely applied and plays an increasingly important role in enterprise business and decision-making issues since it entered into enterprise organization in 1990s. But it remains an isolated island beyond the enterprise information system since it has not integrated with enterprise business system perfectly. It puzzles the enterprise organization as well as GIS Developer that how to integrate GIS with enterprise business system and thus take advantage of the special role of GIS in spatial decision-making. The need of integration of GIS and business system has become a critical issue for organization management. We propose a prototype system which integrates GIS with enterprise business application transparently, seamlessly, effectively and efficiently based on service intelligence agents. Both GIS and business workflows are modeled by web services and integrated into a single portal in this system. We create these web services elements following the rule of atomic and inseparably. By compiling the model into separate elements for each component workflow, the system invokes sequence of web services to satisfied user's command.
The advantages and disadvantages of the traditional PID control and the fuzzy control principle are analyzed. A fuzzy-PID controller is designed for the airborne stabilized platform, to meet the requirements for tracking precision and response speed. The simulation result from MATLAB verified the validity of the method. The dynamic performance of the system has been improved, and the overshoot decreased. At the same time, the stable precision and the response speed are improved obviously.
How fuzzy technology and neural networks and genetic algorithm combine with each other has become the focus of research. A fuzzy neural network controller was proposed based on defuzzification and optimization around the fuzzy neural network structure. Genetic algorithm of fuzzy neural network was brought forward based on optimal control theory. Optimal structure and parameters of fuzzy neural network controller were Offline searched by way of controller performance indicators of genetic algorithm. Fuzzy neural network controller through genetic algorithm was accessed in fuzzy neural network intelligent control system.
Game tree search is a classical problem in the field of game theory and artificial intelligence. Fast game tree algorithm is critical for computer games asking for real-time responses. In this paper, we focus on how to leverage massive parallelism capabilities of GPUs to accelerate the speed of game tree algorithms and propose a concise and general parallel game tree algorithm on GPUs. The performance model of the algorithm is presented and analyzed theoretically. We also implement the algorithm for a real computer game called Connect6 and use it to verify the effectiveness and efficiency of our algorithm. Experiments support our theoretical results and show good performance of our approach. Compared to classical CPU-based game tree algorithms, our algorithm can achieve speedup of 70.8 in case of no pruning. When pruning is considered (which means the practical performance of our algorithm), the speedup can reach about 7.0. The insight of our work is that using GPUs is a feasible way to improve the performance of game tree algorithms.
Bacterial Foraging Algorithm (BFO) is a recently proposed swarm intelligence algorithm inspired by the foraging and chemotactic phenomenon of bacteria. However, its optimization ability is not so good compared with other classic algorithms as it has several shortages. This paper presents an improved BFO Algorithm. In the new algorithm, a lifecycle model of bacteria is founded. The bacteria could split, die, or migrate dynamically in the foraging processes, and population size varies as the algorithm runs. Social learning is also introduced so that the bacteria will tumble towards better directions in the chemotactic steps. Besides, adaptive step lengths are employed in chemotaxis. The new algorithm is named BFOLS and it is tested on a set of benchmark functions with dimensions of 2 and 20. Canonical BFO, PSO, and GA algorithms are employed for comparison. Experiment results and statistic analysis show that the BFOLS algorithm offers significant improvements than original BFO algorithm. Particulary with dimension of 20, it has the best performance among the four algorithms.
The score of the final examination of a student has some relation to the previous records, such as the average score of quizzes, the scores of tests, the number of incomplete homework, and the number of absent class meetings. The relation is usually nonlinear since there are some interactions among the inherent but covert contributions from these previous records towards the final examination. Regarding the score of the final examination as the objective attribute and the previous records as the predictive attributes, the nonlinear multiregression based on the Choquet integral with respect to a nonadditive measure is a proper tool to catch the interaction and, therefore, describe above-mentioned relation well. In this paper, a 2-interactive measure is used as the nonadditive measure to reduce the computational complexity.
The particle swarm optimizer (PSO) is a swarm intelligence based heuristic optimization technique that can be applied to a wide range of problems. After analyzing the dynamics of tranditioal PSO, this paper presents a new PSO variant based on local stochastic search strategy (LSSPSO) for performance enhancement. This is inspired by a social phenomenon that everyone wants to first exceed the nearest superior and then all superior. Specifically, LSSPSO adopts a local stochastic search to adjust inertia weight in terms of keeping a balance between the diversity and the convergence speed, aiming to improve the performance of tranditioal PSO. Experiments conducted on unimodal and multimodal test functions demonstrate the effectiveness of LSSPSO in solving multiple benchmark problems as compared to several other PSO variants.
In this paper, we solve the H-infinity robust optimal control problem for discrete-time nonlinear systems with control saturation constraints using the iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm. First, a heuristic dynamic programming algorithm is derived to solve the Hamilton-Jacobi-Isaacs equation associated with the H-infinity control problem, and a convergence analysis is provided. Then, a dual heuristic dynamic programming algorithm with nonquadratic performance functional is developed to overcome the control saturation constraints. Finally, to facilitate the implementation of the algorithm, four neural networks are used to approximate the unknown nonlinear system, the control policy, the disturbance policy, and the value function.
We are interested in developing a multi-goal generator to provide detailed goal representations that help to improve the performance of the adaptive critic design (ACD). In this paper we propose a hierarchical structure of goal generator networks to cascade external reinforcement into more informative internal goal representations in the ACD. This is in contrast with previous designs in which the external reward signal is assigned to the critic network directly. The ACD control system performance is evaluated on the ball-and-beam balancing benchmark under noise-free and various noisy conditions. Simulation results in the form of a comparative study demonstrate effectiveness of our approach.
In this paper, a new stable value iteration adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm, named "theta-ADP" algorithm, is proposed for solving the optimal control problems of infinite horizon discrete-time nonlinear systems. By introducing a parameter theta in the iterative ADP algorithm, it is proved that any of iterative control obtained in the proposed algorithm can stabilize the nonlinear system which overcomes the disadvantage of traditional value iteration algorithms. Neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function and compute the optimal control policy, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the iterative. theta-ADP algorithm. Finally, a simulation example is given to illustrate the performance of the proposed method.
Traditional spiking neural networks (SNNs) uses simulated spiking neuron models for computation units. Action potentials (APs or spikes) are generated when the integrated sensory or synaptic inputs to a neuron reach a threshold value. However, spiking generation is not a deterministic process, making current models limited for their potentials and applications. Here we consider the effects of adding probabilistic parameters to the spiking neuron model, which controls the synapses established during spiking generation and transmitting. The Hebbian learning rule is employed for controlling the probabilistic parameters self-adaptation and connection weights associated with the synapses are established using Thorpe's rule during the network learning procedure. The proposed framework combines the essence of stochastic characteristics of the cortical neurons in vivo, the biologically plausibility of Hodgkin-Huxley type neuron dynamics, as well as the computational efficiency of integrate-and-fire (I&F) type neurons. A simple simulation acquired following aforementioned instructions (based on Izhivich's SNN model) exhibits more explicit behavior and robust performance than the original model and deterministic network organizations.
This paper aims to integrate the fuzzy control with adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) scheme, to provide an optimized fuzzy control performance, together with faster convergence of ADP for the help of the fuzzy prior knowledge. ADP usually consists of two neural networks, one is the Actor as the controller, the other is the Critic as the performance evaluator. A fuzzy controller applied in many fields can be used instead as the Actor to speed up the learning convergence, because of its simplicity and prior information on fuzzy membership and rules. The parameters of the fuzzy rules are learned by ADP scheme to approach optimal control performance. The feature of fuzzy controller makes the system steady and robust to system states and uncertainties. Simulations on under-actuated systems, a cart-pole plant and a pendubot plant, are implemented. It is verified that the proposed scheme is capable of balancing under-actuated systems and has a wider control zone.
The computation of Contaminant Source Characterization (CSC) is a critical research issue in Water Distribution System (WDS) management. We use a simulation framework to identify optimized locations of sensors that lead to fast detection of contamination sources. The optimization engine is based on a Genetic Algorithm (GA) that interprets trial solutions as individuals. During the optimization process many thousands of these solutions are generated. For a large WDS, the calculation of these solutions are non-trivial and time consuming. Hence, it is a compute intensive application that requires significant compute resources. Furthermore, we strive to generate solutions quickly in order to respond to the urgency of a response.
Stair-climbing is a necessary capacity for mobile robots. This paper presents an online control method for the stair-climbing of a transformable tracked robot, Amoeba-II, and this robot is also an isomerism-modules robot with different mechanism modules. Based on the reasonable compartmentalization and kinematics analysis of the stair-climbing process, the coordination of the rotations of modules can reduce the slippage between tracks and terrain. To ensure that the robot can climb stairs with enough capability and stability, the stair-climbing criterion for the robot has been established based on the force analysis of each stage of the stair-climbing procedure. Meanwhile, the interference-avoiding criterion has been set up to avoid the interference between the non-tracked module of the robot and the stair. The experiment for the stair-climbing of the robot has been implemented to certify the validity of the online stair-climbing control method for a transformable tracked robot.
In this article, we investigate the controllability of multi-agent systems with leaders as control inputs, where the interconnection is directed and weighted. We employ weight-balanced partition to classify the interconnection graphs, and study the controllable subspaces with given nontrivial weight-balanced partition. We also provide two necessary and sufficient graph conditions on structural controllability and strong structural controllability. Moreover, we consider the effect of the zero row-sum restrictions of the system matrices on structural controllability.
Purpose - Reconfigurability of the assembly fixtures, which enables a set of sheet metal automotive parts to be produced on a single production line, is becoming crucial to maintaining competitiveness in the rapidly changing market. One of the key issues in reconfigurable fixture design is to identify the fixture configuration and make sure there is enough workspace for a family of parts. The purpose of this paper is to address this issue, through the design and analysis of two novel reconfigurable fixturing robots.
For intelligent robots need reliable object recognition and precise orientation in complex environments, this paper presents a method that use binocular vision to object recognition. In this paper, use least-squares fitting method to accurately determine coordinates of one matching point and four boundary points, calculate the three-dimension coordinate of the mathcing point via binocular vision theory, compute the three-dimension information include the size and height of the object via projection theory and restrictive relation between four boundary points and depth of mathcing point, which improve the reliability of object recognition and precise of orientation. The results of experiment show that this method can get reliable object recognition and precise orientation, meet the needs of robot path planning and grab objects with gripper.
In recent years, e-learning as a learning system is very popular. But the current e-learning systems cannot instruct students effectively since they do not consider the emotional state in the context of instruction. The emergence of the theory about "Affective computing" can solve this question. It can make the computer's intelligence no longer be a pure cognitive one. In this paper, we construct an emotional intelligent e-learning system based on "Affective computing". A dimensional model is put forward to recognize and analyze the student's emotion state and a virtual teacher's avatar is offered to regulate student's learning psychology with consideration of teaching style based on his personality trait. A "man-to-man" learning environment is built to simulate the traditional classroom's pedagogy in the system. (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier B.V. Selection and/or peer-review under responsibility of ICAPIE Organization Committee.
Over millions of years, complex processes of intelligent control have evolved in nature. Learning from nature is a continuing theme in the development of smart materials and intelligent systems. For example, biological nanochannels, which are typically ion channels, play a very important role in basic biochemical processes in cells. Inspired by ion channels, in which the components are asymmetrically distributed between the membrane surfaces, the generation of biomimetic smart nanochannels is a broad and varied scientific research field. The design and development of new biomimetic channels includes the use of different shapes of channels, different stimuli-responsive molecules, and different symmetric/asymmetric modification methods. In this Minireview, we summarize recent developments in building functional nanochannels by applying various symmetric and asymmetric modifications.
The realization of dynamic and stable walking anthropomorphically for humanoid robots to step on various kinds of uneven environments has long been considered as the research emphasis in the field of humanoid robot. The foot system constitutes the element which ensures the interaction between the humanoid robot and the environment. Apart from supporting the whole weight of robot and sensing the external forces exerted by the foot system on the ground during walk, perception of effective contact area (ECA) and foot postures are indispensably important information supports for various control schemes. This paper describes our research efforts aimed at an integrated perceptual foot (IPF) system which is designed by the conception derived from human foot motion mechanism. The IPF system possesses the capability to perceive the external forces/torques, ECA distribution, foot postures, zero moment point trajectory and topography conditions, etc. And the feasibility and validity of each sensor system in IPF system are experimentally tested on the humanoid robot platform BHR-2, which provide useful information support as possible to achieve some new and effective control schemes for humanoid robots.
In recent years, wit:3 the rapid development of information science, ontology becomes a popular research topic in the fields of knowledge engineering and information management. The reason for ontology being so popular is in large part due to what they promise: a shared and common understanding of some domain that can be communicated across people and computers. In the field of agriculture, FAO has started up the Agricultural Ontology Service (AOS) study project since 2001, AOS aims at providing knowledge service by agricultural domain ontology, it is the new seedtime for agricultural information service. However, establishing the ontology necessitates a great deal of expert assistance; manually setting it up would entail a lot of time, not to mention that there are only a handful of experts available. For this reason, using automatic technology to construct the ontology is a subject worth pursuing. A semi-automatic construction method for agricultural professional ontology from web resources is presented in this paper. For semi-structured web pages, the method automatically extracted and stored structured data through a program, built pattern mapping between relational database and ontology through human-computer interaction, and automatically generated a preliminary ontology, finally completed checking and refining by domain experts. The method provided a viable approach for ontology construction based on network resources in the actual work.
The leaf area index (LAI) is a key parameter in many meteorological, environmental and agricultural models. At present, global LAI products from several sensors have been released. These single sensor-based LAI products are generally discontinuous in time and cannot characterize the status of natural vegetation growth very well. In this study, by fusing Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) and Satellite Pour l'Observation de la Terre (SPOT) VEGETATION products, time-series LAIs were used to train recurrent nonlinear autoregressive neural networks with exogenous inputs (NARXNNs) for six typical vegetation types. The exogenous inputs included time-series reflectances in the red, near-infrared and shortwave infrared bands as well as the corresponding sun-viewing angles. These NARXNNs subsequently served to predict the time-series LAI. The validation results show that the predicted LAI of the NARXNN is not only more continuous and stable than the MODIS LAI as a function of time but is also much closer to the ground truth. Thus, the proposed method may be helpful for improving the quality of the MODIS LAI.
Coupled nonlinear dynamical systems have been widely studied recently. However, the dynamical properties of these systems are difficult to deal with. The local activity of cellular neural network (CNN) has provided a powerful tool for studying the emergence of complex patterns in a homogeneous lattice, which is composed of coupled cells. In this paper, the analytical criteria for the local activity in reaction-diffusion CNN with five state variables and one port are presented, which consists of four theorems, including a serial of inequalities involving CNN parameters. These theorems can be used for calculating the bifurcation diagram to determine or analyze the emergence of complex dynamic patterns, such as chaos. As a case study, a reaction-diffusion CNN of hepatitis B Virus (HBV) mutation-selection model is analyzed and simulated, the bifurcation diagram is calculated. Using the diagram, numerical simulations of this CNN model provide reasonable explanations of complex mutant phenomena during therapy. Therefore, it is demonstrated that the local activity of CNN provides a practical tool for the complex dynamics study of some coupled nonlinear systems.
Using a feed-forward artificial neural network (ANN), the tensile strength of a series of poly(phthalazinone ether sulfone ketone)(PPESK) blended with different contents of polyetheretherketone(PEEK), polysulfone(PSF), polyphenylene sulide (PPS) and reinforced with various amounts of whisker(TK) composites has been predicted based on a measured database. Compared with the experimental results, the maximum error obtained is not more than 0.8%. It is concluded that the predicted data are well acceptable. A well-trained ANN is expected to be very helpful mathematical tool in the structure-property analysis of polymer composites. Finally, using ANN modeling data and experimental data, the tensile strength properties related to whisker weight percent were established.
This paper presents the design and implementation of a Miniature SwitchAble (MISA) connection system for stochastic modular robots. The MISA connector consists of attaching, aligning, locking, detaching and holding mechanisms. The connection function can be switched on and off by controlling shape memory alloy (SMA) actuators. Furthermore, it possess functions of self-attachment and self-alignment through magnetic interaction under random collision condition. The design details and prototype construction are presented. The preliminary experiments and results demonstrate feasibility and performance of this miniature connector. The potential application is to integrate it into modular microrobots. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This article simulated fuzzy control system by using MATLAB and compared the normal fuzzy control system with the fuzzy control system which has an integrator. Further more, the influence of quantize factors, proportional factors and integral constants on system was studied. The simulation results show that static error always exists in normal fuzzy control systems and proportional factors influence the stability of the system greatly. Put an integrator into a fuzzy control system, and static error can be eliminated and the system stability can be improved. The conclusion of simulation and practical experience, use fuzzy control system with integrator in reality. It can get good results.
Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to propose a screw axis identification (SAI) method based on the product of exponentials (POE) model, which is concerned with calibrating a serial robot with m joints equipped with a stereo-camera vision system.
This article presents a sufficient comparison of two types of advanced non-parametric classifiers implemented in remote sensing for land cover classification. A SPOT-5 HRG image of Yanqing County, Beijing, China, was used, in which agriculture and forest dominate land use. Artificial neural networks (ANNs), including the adaptive backpropagation (ABP) algorithm, Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) algorithm, Quasi-Newton (QN) algorithm and radial basis function (RBF) were carefully tested. The LM-ANN and RBF-ANN, which outperform the other two, were selected to make a detailed comparison with support vector machines (SVMs). The experiments show that those well-trained ANNs and SVMs have no significant difference in classification accuracy, but the SVM usually performs slightly better. Analysis of the effect of the training set size highlights that the SVM classifier has great tolerance on a small training set and avoids the problem of insufficient training of ANN classifiers. The testing also illustrates that the ANNs and SVMs can vary greatly with regard to training time. The LM-ANN can converge very quickly but not in a stable manner. By contrast, the training of RBF-ANN and SVM classifiers is fast and can be repeatable.
The diagnosis model of the cucumber diseases and insect pests was established by laser-induced chlorophyll fluorescence (LICF) spectroscopy technology combined with Back Propagation Artificial Neural Networks (BP-ANN) algorithm in this research. This model would be used to realize the fast and exact diagnosis of the cucumber diseases and insect pests. Four kinds of in-vivo cucumber leaves (health, downy mildew, aphid, downy mildew and aphid) were used in this experiment, and detected the physiological information and chlorophyll fluorescence spectrum by the corresponding experimental apparatus and chlorophyll fluorescence spectrum collection system. The two hundred and nineteen samples were randomly separated into the calibration set and the validation set. Principal component analysis (PCA) was a method which had been widely used in the spectroscopic analysis for reducing the dimensionality of the noise reduction spectrum, and according to the model accuracy seven principal components (PCs) were selected to replace the complex spectral data. The noise of original spectrum was reduced by five methods, which include Savitzky-Golay smoothing (SG), First-order Differential Treatment (FDT), Fast Fourier Transform (FFT), Standard Normal Variate (SNV) and Wavelet Analysis (WA). According to the best diagnosis accuracy of calibration and prediction set, optimization results with every pretreatment method in different spectrum band were compared. Results showed that BP-ANN with input by the first seven principal components of full-band spectrum had the best identification capabilities and accuracy was 100% after the original spectrum noise was reduced by FDT. This research indicated that the method of BP-ANN had a good identification effect and could realize rapid diagnosis of the cucumber diseases and insect pests as a new method.
This paper is concerned with the stability of systems with interval time-varying delay. By employing a new and tighter integral inequality and constructing an appropriate type of Lyapunov functional, the improved delay-dependent stability criteria are derived. Because neither any model transformation nor free weighting matrices are employed in the theoretical derivation, the developed stability criteria simplify and improve the existing stability conditions. Numerical examples are given to demonstrate the effectiveness and the benefits of the proposed methods.
The fully connected Hopfield network is inferred based on observed magnetizations and pairwise correlations. We present the system in the glassy phase with low temperature and high memory load. We find that the inference error is very sensitive to the form of state sampling. When a single state is sampled to compute magnetizations and correlations, the inference error is almost indistinguishable irrespective of the sampled state. However, the error can be greatly reduced if the data is collected with state transitions. Our result holds for different disorder samples and accounts for the previously observed large fluctuations of inference error at low temperatures.
Improvements in hybrid electric vehicle (HEV) fuel economy and emissions heavily depend on an efficient energy management strategy (EMS). However, the uncertainty of future driving conditions generally cannot be easily tackled in EMS design. Most existing EMSs act upon fixed parameters and cannot adapt to varying driving conditions. Therefore, they usually fail to fully explore the potential of these advanced vehicles. In this paper, a novel EMS design procedure based on neural dynamic programming (NDP) is proposed. The NDP is a generic online learning algorithm, which combines stochastic dynamic programming (SDP) and the temporal difference (TD) method. Instead of computing the utility function and optimal control actions through Bellman equations, the NDP algorithm uses two neural networks to approximate them. The weights of these neural networks are updated online by the TD method. It avoids the high computational cost that SDP suffers from and is suitable for real-time implementation. The main advantages of NDP EMS is that it does not rely on prior information related to future driving conditions, and can self-tune with a wide variance in operating conditions. The NDP EMS has been applied to "Qianghua-I", a prototype of a parallel HEV, using a revolving drum test bench for verification. Experiment results illustrate the potential of the proposed EMS in terms of fuel economy and in keeping state of charge (SOC) deviations at a low level. The proposed research ensures the optimality of NDP EMS, as well as real-time applicability.
Endmember extraction is an important procedure in spectral unmixing of hyperspectral images. A swarm intelligence algorithm named Ant Colony Optimization (ACO) was recently introduced for endmember extraction from hyperspectral images. Through theoretic and experimental analysis, this new algorithm can be utilized in various situations and can get the optimum endmembers. However, considering the high computational amount, the ACO Endmember Extraction algorithm (ACOEE) based on the random search is time- consuming for hyperspectral image analysis. In recent years, high- performance computing based on the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) has been increasingly applied in hyperspectral image processing. In this paper, we propose a new parallel implementation of the ACOEE based on the GPU. The algorithm is implemented using the Compute Device Unified Architecture (CUDA), and tested on the NVidia Quadro 5000 architecture. The results show that the computational performance of ACOEE based on GPU has significantly improved in the analysis of real hyperspectral data.
The history of solar weather forecasting services at National Astronomical Observatories, Chinese Academy of Sciences (NAOC) can be traced back to 1960s. Nowadays, NAOC is the headquarters of the Regional Warning Center of China (RWC-China), which is one of the members of the International Space Environment Service (ISES). NAOC is responsible for exchanging data, information and space weather forecasts of RWC-China with other RWCs. The solar weather forecasting services at NAOC cover short-term prediction (within two or three days), medium-term prediction (within several weeks), and long-term prediction (in time scale of solar cycle) of solar activities. Most efforts of the short-term prediction research are concentrated on the solar eruptive phenomena, such as flares, coronal mass ejections (CMEs) and solar proton events, which are the key driving sources of strong space weather disturbances. Based on the high quality observation data of the latest space-based and ground-based solar telescopes and with the help of artificial intelligence techniques, new numerical models with quantitative analyses and physical consideration are being developed for the predictions of solar eruptive events. The 3-D computer simulation technology is being introduced for the operational solar weather service platform to visualize the monitoring of solar activities, the running of the prediction models, as well as the presenting of the forecasting results. A new generation operational solar weather monitoring and forecasting system is expected to be constructed in the near future at NAOC.
Because of the inherent high nonlinearity of rock material, associated with the extreme complicity of mechanical and geological conditions, it is usually very difficult to model the response of rocks to engineering activities mathematically and physically. Recently, with integrated applications of artificial intelligence, system science, rock mechanics and engineering geology, an interesting alternative methodology, intelligent analysis methods, for recognition of rock mechanics models was proposed. This paper reviews the new developments of this kind of method and gives some prospects for further works.
This paper focuses on a class of unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems with dead-zone control constraints based on adaptive dynamic programming (ADP). The discrete-time Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (DTHJB) equation corresponding to the dead-zone control input is formulated. Based on ADP technique, a new cost function is proposed that solves the optimal control with dead zone constraints effectively. It shows that this algorithm allows the implementation of the optimal control without knowing nonlinear affine system model and dead-zone dynamics. Finally, a simulation example is provided to verify the effectiveness of the proposed iterative algorithm.
In this paper, the nearly H-infinity optimal control solution for discrete-time (DT) constrained input nonlinear systems is considered. First, to deal with the input constraints, a quasi-norm performance index function is introduced. Second, the corresponding constrained Hamilton-Jacobi-Isaacs (HJI) equation is formulated, and then the quasi L-2-gain analysis of the nonlinear system is employed. Third, an iterative algorithm based on the game theoretic interpretation of the generalized HJI (GHJI) equation by using neural networks (NNs) is presented. Moreover, the convergence of the algorithm to the optimal saddle point solution is proved, and the stability is also proved. Finally, a simulation example is given to illustrate the performance of the proposed method.
In this paper, an effective iterative algorithm is proposed to deal with the optimal control problem of a class of nonlinear discrete-time delay systems. We define a meaningful performance index function to removing the disturbance of time delay terms. The iterative Dual Heuristic Programming (DHP) algorithm is introduced to design the optimal controller. Three neural networks are chosen to facilitate the implementation of the algorithm, which approximate the performance index function, the optimal control policy and the nonlinear delay system, respectively. A simulation example is given to demonstrate the validity of the proposed optimal control approach. For time-variant delay, this iterative algorithm shows the improved performance compared with other methods.
Classifier ensemble has been intensively studied with the aim of overcoming the limitations of individual classifier components in two prevalent directions, i.e., to diversely generate classifier components, and to sparsely combine multiple classifiers. Currently, most approaches are emphasized only on sparsity or on diversity. In this paper, we investigated classifier ensemble with learning both sparsity and diversity using a heuristic method. We formulated the sparsity and diversity learning problem in a general mathematical framework which is beneficial for learning sparsity and diversity while grouping classifiers. Moreover, we proposed a practical approach based on the genetic algorithm for the optimization process. In order to conveniently evaluate the diversity of component classifiers, we introduced the diversity contribution ability to select proper classifier components and evolve classifier weights. Experimental results on several UCI classification data sets confirm that our approach has a promising sparseness and the generalization performance.
Autonomous navigation plays important role in mobile robots. In this paper, a navigation controller based on spiking neural networks (SNNs) for mobile robots is presented. The proposed target-reaching navigation controller, in which the reactive architecture is used, is composed of three sub-controllers: the obstacle-avoidance controller and the wall-following controller using spiking neural networks (SNNs), and the goal-reaching controller. The experimental results show that the navigation controller can control the mobile robot to reach the target successfully while avoiding the obstacle and following the wall to get rid of the deadlock caused by local minimum. The proposed navigation controller does not require accurate mathematical models of the environment, and is suitable to unknown and unstructured environment.
Aiming at the problem of image fusion method based on sparse representation being easy to lose image details, a fusion method based on double sparse representation in wavelet domain is presented. Firstly, training images are transformed into the wavelet domain and learning dictionary for each sub-band respectively. And the double sparse representation coefficients for source images can be acquired by the learned dictionary and the coefficients being combined with the choose-max fusion rule. Finally, the fusion image is reconstructed by the inverse wavelet transform. The computer simulation results show that the proposed method performs very well in fusion both noiseless and noisy situations, and outperform conventional methods in terms of visual effect and quantitative fusion evaluation indexes.
A neural-network-based finite-horizon optimal tracking control scheme for a class of unknown nonlinear discrete-time systems is developed. First, the tracking control problem is converted into designing a regulator for the tracking error dynamics under the framework of finite-horizon optimal control theory. Then, with convergence analysis in terms of cost function and control law, the iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm is introduced to obtain the finite-horizon optimal controller to make the cost function close to its optimal value within an g-error bound. Furthermore, in order to implement the algorithm via dual heuristic dynamic programming technique, three neural networks are employed to approximate the error dynamics, the cost function, and the control law, respectively. In addition, a numerical example is given to demonstrate the validity of the present approach.
Adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) is an effective method for learning while fuzzy controller has been put into use in many applications because of its simplicity and no need of accurate mathematic modeling. The combination of ADP and fuzzy control has been studied a lot. Before this paper, we have studied using ADP to learn the fuzzy rules of a Monotonic controller, which shows good performance. In this paper, a hyperbolic fuzzy model is adopted to make an improvement. In this way, both membership function and fuzzy rules are learned. With ADP algorithm, fuzzy controller has the capacity of learning and adapting. Simulations on a single cart-pole plant and a rotational inverted pendulum are implemented to observe the performance, even with uncertainties and disturbances.
In this paper, we consider the distributed output regulation problem of linear multi-agent systems subject to input saturation with switching topology. It is natural to take the semiglobal frame for distributed output regulation with input saturation which allows us to use distributed linear feedback controller. The basic problem is to design distributed feedback controller for the considered multi-agent systems subject to input saturation in order to achieve asymptotically tracking and disturbance rejection. A systematic distributed linear design approach based on the solvability condition is proposed for the semiglobal distributed output regulation with switching interconnection topology.
In this paper, we consider the performance of a class of distributed coordination algorithms of discrete-time second-order multi-agent systems with partially measurable states and a limited communication data rate. The distributed coordinated control law is based on an encoding-decoding scheme which integrates the state observation with encoding/decoding. The convergence time, the selection of controller parameters and the performance limit are discussed. We give upper bounds of the convergence time in terms of precision, control and network parameters. We develop a linear approximation of the spectral radius of the closed-loop matrix with respect to the control gains and the algebraic connectivity of the communication graph, by which we show that for a connected network, 2-bit quantizers suffice for the exponential asymptotic synchronization of the states of the agents. Furthermore, it is shown that as the number of agents increases, the asymptotic convergence rate can be approximated as a function of the number of agents, the number of quantization levels (communication data rate) and the ratio of the algebraic connectivity to the spectral radius of the Laplacian matrix of the communication graph.
A distributed sampled-data based protocol is proposed for the average consensus of double-integrator multiagent systems with switching topologies and communication noises. The proposed protocol uses information from two aspects: the agent's own state and the relative states between the agent and its neighbors. Due to the existence of communication noises, the relative states cannot be obtained accurately. To deal with this difficulty, a time-varying consensus gain is employed to attenuate the noise effect. Under the proposed protocol, it is proved that sufficient conditions for ensuring mean square average consensus are: the consensus gain satisfies the stochastic approximation type condition and the communication topology graph at each sampling instant is a balanced graph with a spanning tree. Finally, a simulation example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed consensus protocol.
Nowadays, consensus of multi-agent systems (MAS) is an intriguing topic which receives increasing attention from various disciplines recently. Traditionally, the analysis of consensusability for a given MAS with switching topology can be attributed to some techniques such as eigenvalue analysis, convergence of Markov chain, Lyapunov candidate construction, and so on. However, all these techniques are based on some restrictive conditions and hardly be generalized to the case of general switching topology. This paper aims at providing an inner explanation that the general consensus problem of MAS with switching topology can be transformed into the numerical calculation of the Lyapunov exponent for a given set of matrices. Consequently, the consensus of MAS with general switching topology can be resolved by using the existing numerical algorithm of Lyapunov exponent.
This paper addresses the attitude synchronization problem of multiple rigid body agents in SO(3) with directed and switching interconnection topologies. Using the axis-angle representation of the orientation, a distributed controller based on differences between the orientations of agents in a global frame is proposed. In the case of the balanced interconnection graph, the attitude synchronization is achieved with the well-known mild assumption (that is, uniform joint strong connection). To demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme, an illustrative example is provided.
In the present paper we consider the problem of attitude synchronization for a system of rigid body agents. We provide distributed kinematic control laws for two different synchronization problems. In the two problems the objective is the same, i.e., to synchronize the orientations of the agents, but what is assumed to be measurable by the agents differs. In problem 1 the agents measure their own orientations in a global reference frame, and obtain the orientations of their neighbors by means of communication. In problem 2 the agents only measure the relative orientations to their neighbors. By using the axis-angle representation of the orientation, we show that simple linear control laws solve both synchronization problems. Moreover we show that our proposed control laws work for directed and connected topologies on almost all SO (3) for problem 1 and on convex balls in SO(3) for problem 2.
In order to handle the model uncertainty and the external disturbance, a robust attitude control method for helicopter robots is proposed in this paper. Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF) and backstepping technique are adopted in the attitude control design. Model-based backstepping control is presented to keep the desired helicopter attitude. UKF is employed for online estimation of both motion states and model errors of the helicopter. Such estimation results are further incorporated into the controller of helicopter. The backstepping control enhanced by real time model errors feedback can achieve a robust tracking performance even with the occurrence of external disturbance. Simulations conducted on the helicopter illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed attitude control.
Event-triggered control is an effective protocol to design distributed control of multi-agent systems with the limited resources. In this paper, we consider a multi-agent tracking problem for a linear active leader based on event-triggered control. The state of the leader keeps changing and may not be measured. To estimate the state such a leader individually, a neighbor-based local controller together with a neighbor based state-estimation rule is given for each autonomous agent, and the communication of the agents under consideration is event-driven. Then we prove that, with a constructed common Lyapunov function for switching topology, each agent can track the active leader with unmeasurable states.
In this paper, the consensus of second-order multi agent systems with exogenous disturbances generated by nonlinear exosystem is investigated. Firstly, a dynamic gain technique based disturbance observer is presented to estimate the exogenous disturbance generated by nonlinear exosystem. Secondly, based on the presented disturbance observer, consensus protocol is further proposed. A rigorous consensus analysis is performed. Finally, an example is provided to show the effectiveness of the proposed results.
This paper studies synchronization via pinning control on general multi-agent systems with strongly connected topologies. A criterion tim reaching network synchronization on strongly connected networks is given. It is found that the vertices with very small in-degrees should he pinned first and the vertices with very large out-degrees may be pinned from the reformulated lower-order condition. Finally, a simulation example is given to verify the proposed pinning scheme.
The controllability and observability of leader-following multi-agent linear systems under switching topology are considered. Unlike the existing results, the controllability and observability are analyzed in a different context. More specifically, as for the controllability problem, the admissible control input for each follower agent can only use relative and local information from its neighbors and the control objective is the convergence of each follower's state to to that of the leader agent; as for the observability problem, the output of the multi-agent systems is all the information transmitted in the multi-agent network. It turns out that under the controllability and observability of individual system, the jointly connected switching topology, including fixed topology as a special case, implies the controllability and observability of the multi-agent systems. As applications, these properties are used in the leader-following consensus problem under switching topology.
The trajectory tracking control problem of the uncertain mobile robot with nonholonomic constraints is analyzed. Sliding mode control is presented based on the kinematics models analysis. Switching function of sliding model control is designed according to back-stepping method. Trending law control is selected to improve the system dynamic performance. In order to solve the constant speed problem caused by conventional trending law control, fuzzy control is used to adjust trending speed in the real time. The simulation results demonstrate that the fuzzy sliding mode controller improves the rapidity of trajectory tracking, and reduces the tracking error and the chattering of the control output.
In this paper, we propose an approximately projected consensus algorithm (APCA) for a network to cooperatively compute the intersection of several convex sets, each of which is known only to a particular node. Instead of assuming the exact convex projection, we allow each node to just compute an approximate projection. The communication graph is directed and time-varying, and nodes can only exchange information via averaging among local view. We present sufficient and/or necessary conditions for the APCA, which shows on how much projection accuracy is required to ensure a global consensus within the intersection set when the communication graphs is uniformly jointly strongly connected. We show that pi/4 is a critical angle error in the projection approximation to ensure a bounded solution for iterative projections. A numerical example indicates that the APCA may achieve better performance than the exact projected consensus algorithm. The results add the understanding of the fundamentals of distributed convex intersection computation.
In a recent paper, Cucker and Smale proposed a multi-agent model to study the flocking behavior, where they assume that all agents can interact with all other agents. Though this model attracted much attention of researchers, the global interactions used in that paper changed the nature of multi-agent systems. In this paper we will investigate a new flocking model, in which the global interactions between agents are replaced by local interaction functions. We will provide necessary conditions and sufficient conditions for consensus.
In Complex Adaptive Systems, agents co-adapt to each other through interaction. A typical example is game: players learn and adapt to the opponent through game playing. This paper studies the adaptive characteristic of co-adaptation through a combinatorial game '' Five-in-a-row '' focusing on the evaluation function and game tree. The computer simulations show that a high-level player (with a good evaluation function) will win more if she knows the opponent's next move, but a lowlevel player (with a relatively worse evaluation function) will lose more if she knows the opponent's next move. We call this phenomenon '' knowing more is less ''. To explore the reason and the generality of this phenomenon, an abstract theoretical model is built on a full k-ary game tree. Analysis and numerical simulations based on this model prove that '' knowing more is less '' will happen for a player if her evaluation function accuracy rate is below 0.5. This result indicates that during combinatorial game playing, identification of the opponent only is not enough; the player also need to improve her evaluation function for the board in the sense of mini-max solution as well.
In this paper, we consider flexible formation and related control design of multi-robot systems. A hierarchical structure is provided for flexible formation of unicycle robots. With the virtual hierarchy defined in light of interconnection graphs, the formation and related parameters can be changed in different levels of the whole structure. The formation control design is given from a leader-following viewpoint. Stability analysis is also provided after that.
Learning is an important capability for an individual robot, which provides an effective way for understanding, planning, and decision-making in a complex environment. For robot motion control, a local weighted k-nearest neighbors states selection method based on environment information and task information is presented. Based on this method, TD reinforcement learning algorithm is combined to reduce the misclassified probability of kNN-TD method, which is finally verified by the simulations.
To solve the problem of occlusion for robot grasping, a novel method is proposed, by which the robot can grasp an occluded target object accurately. In this paper, the principles of binocular vision, camera calibration, stereo rectification and stereo matching are described. By utilizing the stereo-vision algorithm, robots can obtain the three-dimensional information of objects. For accurate grasping, the depth information of the object is optimized, where the principles of connected consistency and threshold setting have been applied in the depth image. The ORB algorithm is applied to find the occlusion dynamically. The approach for grasping the occluded object is proved to be effective by experiments.
For spectators and public transport demand during the 16th Asian Games and the first Asian Para Games held in Guangzhou in 2010, Aided Decision-Making System of Public Transportation Management for Guangzhou Asian Games had been developed to support public transport management decision. It can help public transport managers to enhance the level of public transport management from experience-based formulation and manual implementation to scientific computation-based formulation and automatic implementation by intelligent systems, to guarantee the traffic demand effectively during the games, and to improve the management of public transportation significantly.
This paper discusses decentralized sweep coverage of a given region with parametric uncertainties by multiple agents. With parametric uncertainty in the environment, we present an adaptive sweep coverage algorithm to guarantee the region coverage by sweeping and workload partition. The adaptive technique with persistence condition is employed to sweep an unbounded region, and the upper bound for the extra time spent due to the environmental uncertainty is estimated for the covered region.
This paper studies the continuous-time distributed estimation problem for time-varying target under switching topologies and stochastic noises. There are three main features in this problem: only a portion of sensors have a access to the target; three kinds of stochastic noises arising in dynamic process, measurement and communication are considered; and the topological structure between sensors and target is switching. For this problem we propose a continuous-time distributed estimation algorithm. Under observability and connectivity, one upper and lower bound for the total mean square estimation error is established by using common Lyapunov method and Kalman-Bucy filtering theory, respectively. The numerical simulation also verifies the effictiveness of the proposed algorithm.
In this paper, a hierarchical control design for multi-agent systems is considered, where the agents are guided by a simple abstract system. The simulation relations are discussed for coordination of multiple agents, and then distributed controls are proposed with switching topology for collective behaviors such as consensus tracking and formation with the help of simulation functions.
This paper investigates a class of flocks with an M-nearest-neighbor rule, where each agent's neighbors are determined according to M nearest agents with M being a given integer, rather than all the agents within a fixe? metric distance as In the well-known Vicsek's model. We will prove the synchronization of the model under reasonable conditions. Imposed only on the system's speed and the number M, but without resorting to any sort of connectvity assumptions on the trajectory of the system. In particular, we will prove that if the number M is proportional to the population Size n, then for any speed v, the system Will synchronize with large probability if the population size is large enough.
The adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) approach is employed to design an optimal controller for unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems with control constraints. First, a neural network is constructed to identify the unknown dynamical system with stability proof. Then, the iterative ADP algorithm is developed to solve the optimal control problem with convergence analysis. Moreover, two other neural networks are introduced to approximate the cost function and its derivative and the control law, under the framework of globalized dual heuristic programming technique. Finally, two simulation examples are included to verify the theoretical results.
In this paper, we propose a novel adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) scheme based on general value iteration to obtain near optimal control for discrete-time nonlinear systems with continuous state and control space. First, the selection of initial value function is different from the traditional value iteration, and a new method is introduced to demonstrate the convergence property and convergence speed of the value function. Then, the control law obtained at each iteration can stabilize the system under some conditions. At last, three neural networks with Levenberg-Marquardt training algorithm are used to approximate the unknown nonlinear system, the value function and the optimal control law. One simulation example is presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the present scheme.
Reinforcement learning aims to obtain optimal/suboptimal strategy through trial-and-error and interaction with dynamic environment. After an introduction of basic knowledge of reinforcement learning, TD algorithm, Q-learning algorithm, Dyna algorithm and Sarsa algorithm base on Markov decision model are discussed, respectively. Moreover, reinforcement learning based on partially observable Markov decision process and semi-Markov decision model for uncertain environment are analyzed, respectively. The research status of Q learning in the field of multi-robot systems is also presented. Finally, the main challenges and further research work are given.
Backing up control of the truck-trailer system, which is nonlinear and unstable, is a well-known benchmark for examining the nonlinear control design techniques. This paper presents a single-input-rule-modules (SIRMs) connected type-2 fuzzy logic control scheme for this nonlinear multi-variable system. And, to improve the control performance, genetic algorithms (GAs) are adopted for the optimization of the controller parameters. At last, in order to demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed control scheme, simulations and comparisons are given. Simulation results show that the designed fuzzy controller can smoothly achieve backing up control of the truck-trailer from all initial positions. Comparisons with type-1 fuzzy controllers demonstrate that the type-2 fuzzy controller with more parameters can provide better performance.
This paper presents a novel downhole power supply control system using fuzzy PID control strategy. The control system is powered by a downhole turbine generator which generates AC voltage. The output of the turbine generator is processed through a full wave bridge rectifier and filter, and then input to the phase-shifted full-bridge PWM controller. A digital signal processor TMS320F2809 is used as the main control unit of the regulator control module. In order to verify the effectiveness of this system, a fuzzy proportion integration differentiation (F-PID) controller is used to control the phase-shifted full-bridge switching power supply, and the results presented that the controller can ensure the stability for power supply.
In this paper the control method about biped robot walking on water is mainly developed. As the complexity of the water environment, biped robot walking on water encounter many difficulties when walking such as external environment modeling, gait planning, water interference and so on. The traditional model-based exact kinematic solution method is not applied. This article studies control algorithm that combine CPG neural networks and fuzzy control. The control algorithm is used for robot process control. The nonlinear model of the robot is got from electro-mechanical system co-simulation. In order to verify the validity of the algorithm, biped robot control system is established. Simulation results show that the algorithm can meet the control requirements of walking biped robot biped robot walking on water.
With the development of economy and the requirement of market, service robots have received more and more attention. This paper refers to a practical and reliable service robot system for greeting guests. The system consists of the following two parts: smart phone and robot main body, which are connected by Ad hoc network. Smart phone assists the master-control program of robot to finish tasks, such as modifying grammars, registering information, remote stopping urgently, and so on. There are nine modules in the master-control program, including face registration, face recognition, speech recognition, speech synthesis, information processing, mechanical action and expressions, safety design, and monitor module with smart phone. These nine modules coordinate with each other in order for the robot to realize such functions as fluent conversation, kind image and great anthropomorphism. The robot can serve for museums, tourist attractions, supermarkets, hotels and so on due to its reliable performance.
Simultaneously localizing and tracking of moving target is one of the most important applications of mobile robot system. However, single robot often presents great limitation when facing such tasks because the equipped sensors are often with low precision considering factors of loading ability and cost. Thus, in this paper, cooperative strategy of multiple robot systems is researched to handle this problem. Firstly, 3D localizing algorithm of two robot systems using vision sensors is proposed based on the basic theory of stereo vision, which is then modeled as a nonlinear estimation problem and solved by using UKF algorithm. Subsequently, formation control algorithm is introduced to make multiple robots track to the moving target. Finally, experiments are conducted and the results are analyzed with respect to an indoor multiple-flying-robot platform to verify the feasibility and validity of the proposed algorithms.
This paper considers the sampled-data average consensus problem for multi-agent systems with first order continuous dynamics. The communication channels among the agents are constrained in which the exchanged information is digital rather than analogue. In this paper, the logarithmic quantizer is applied to the communication channels. A distributed consensus protocol is proposed based on sampled measurements. It is proved that as long as the quantization levels are dense enough, the proposed protocol is robust to the logarithmic quantization, i.e. all the states of the agents are uniformly bounded and the gap between the state of each agent and the average value of the initial conditions converges to zero as the density of quantization levels goes to infinity. An example is given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the protocol.
This paper studies a consensus problem of linear multi-agent systems with switching communication topologies based on dynamic output feedback approach. Agents are described by the general continuous-time or discrete-time linear time-invariant dynamics. Each agent can only measure its output rather than the full state. To solve this difficulty, a dynamic output feedback approach is proposed to estimate agent's state, and the estimated state is sent to the connected agents. Then a distributed protocol is proposed for the multi-agent system to reach a consensus. It is proved that the sufficient conditions for ensuing consensus are: each communication topology graph occurred in the time course is a balanced graph including a spanning tree; the system matrices of every agent are stabilizable and detectable; the input matrix is not a zero matrix and the dwell time of the system is larger than a given constant. Finally, a simulation example is given to validate the effectiveness of the proposed protocol.
In the paper, Stackelberg games are investigated for large population multi-agent systems involving a major agent and a large number of minor agents. In each stage of the game, the major agent first makes decisions, and then all minor agents give strategies simultaneously. A set of centralized Stackelberg equilibrium strategy is first provided, and then, by the mean field approach and the brute force method, a set of distributed strategies is given. Under a mild condition, it is shown that the closed-loop system is uniformly stable and the set of distributed strategies is an e-Stackelberg equilibrium.
The Air-Ground robots cooperation has much superiority for they are function complementary, which is very important for the application. Thus, more and more attentions have been paid to the Air-Ground cooperation researches. One of the important cooperation modes is that with its wide environment perception the aerial robot supplies the navigation information for the ground robot. Based on the problem, theory and experiment are studied in this paper. The environmental modeling and target identification based on the airborne CCD sensor are first researched. Then the window tracking method is proposed to achieve the target tracking. In the final, the motion based cooperative collision avoidance experiment is set to verify the proposed method.
This paper considers distributed output regulation (DOR) of nonlinear multi-agent systems (MAS). A concept, called networked internal model (IM), is introduced for distributed control design of DOR based on some additional controller network. A typical networked IM with an input-to-state stability property is studied and further applied to solve DOR of a class of MAS. The result shows that the complexity of IM-based controller construction can be significantly reduced by virtue of networked IMs with certain communications among controller stations.
Conformation-independent chirality codes, radial distribution function (RDF) codes, and indicator variables are implemented to represent 1914 catalysts in a combinatorial library which was tested by Riant and co-workers for the asymmetric-hydrogen transfer to acetophenone. The catalysts which combine a metallic center with a chiral ligand have been evaluated in terms of both enantiomeric excess and yield. A counterpropagation neural network (CPG NN) was trained with a small fraction of the library to predict the performance of catalysts, and applied to the virtual screening of the remaining library. Selection of <20.8% of the virtual library with the highest predicted performance enables to identify up to 85.5% of the best catalysts. The approach illustrates a chemoinformatic method to assist the optimization of resources for the screening of enantioselective catalysts. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The normal mode observations of seven quiet regions obtained by the Hinode spacecraft are analyzed to study the physical properties of granules. An artificial intelligence technique is introduced to automatically find the spatial distribution of granules in feature spaces. In this work, we investigate the dependence of granular continuum intensity, mean Doppler velocity, and magnetic fields on granular diameter. We recognized 71,538 granules by an automatic segmentation technique and then extracted five properties: diameter, continuum intensity, Doppler velocity, and longitudinal and transverse magnetic flux density to describe the granules. To automatically explore the intrinsic structures of the granules in the five-dimensional parameter space, the X-means clustering algorithm and one-rule classifier are introduced to define the rules for classifying the granules. It is found that diameter is a dominating parameter in classifying the granules and two families of granules are derived: small granules with diameters smaller than 1 ''.44, and large granules with diameters larger than 1 ''.44. Based on statistical analysis of the detected granules, the following results are derived: (1) the averages of diameter, continuum intensity, and Doppler velocity in the upward direction of large granules are larger than those of small granules; (2) the averages of absolute longitudinal, transverse, and unsigned flux density of large granules are smaller than those of small granules; (3) for small granules, the average of continuum intensity increases with their diameters, while the averages of Doppler velocity, transverse, absolute longitudinal, and unsigned magnetic flux density decrease with their diameters. However, the mean properties of large granules are stable; (4) the intensity distributions of all granules and small granules do not satisfy Gaussian distribution, while that of large granules almost agrees with normal distribution with a peak at 1.04 I(0).
In order to have a self-organized multi-agent system exhibit some expected collective behavior, it is necessary to add some special agents with information (called leaders) to intervene the system. Then a fundamental question is: how many such leaders are needed? Naturally the answer depends on the model to be studied. In this paper a typical model proposed by Vicsek et al. is used for answering the question. By estimating the characteristics concerning the initial states of all agents and analyzing the system dynamics, we provide lower bounds on the ratio of leaders needed to guarantee the expected consensus. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a novel heuristic dynamic programming (HDP) iteration algorithm is proposed to solve the optimal tracking control problem for a class of nonlinear discrete-time systems with time delays. The novel algorithm contains state updating, control policy iteration, and performance index iteration. To get the optimal states, the states are also updated. Furthermore, the "backward iteration" is applied to state updating. Two neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function and compute the optimal control policy for facilitating the implementation of HDP iteration algorithm. At last, we present two examples to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed HDP iteration algorithm.
In this brief, we develop data-based methods for analyzing the controllability and observability of linear discrete-time systems which have unknown system parameters. These data-based methods will only use measured data to construct the controllability matrix as well as the observability matrix, in order to verify the corresponding properties. The advantages of our methods are threefold. First, they can directly verify system properties based on measured data without knowing system parameters. Second, our calculation precision is higher than traditional approaches, which need to identify the unknown parameters. Third, our methods have lower computational complexities when constructing the controllability and observability matrices.
This paper is reports an extension of our previous investigations on adding transparency to neural networks. We focus on a class of linear priors (LPs), such as symmetry, ranking list, boundary, monotonicity, etc., which represent either linear-equality or linear-inequality priors. A generalized constraint neural network-LPs (GCNN-LPs) model is studied. Unlike other existing modeling approaches, the GCNN-LP model exhibits its advantages. First, any LP is embedded by an explicitly structural mode, which may add a higher degree of transparency than using a pure algorithm mode. Second, a direct elimination and least squares approach is adopted to study the model, which produces better performances in both accuracy and computational cost over the Lagrange multiplier techniques in experiments. Specific attention is paid to both "hard (strictly satisfied)" and "soft (weakly satisfied)" constraints for regression problems. Numerical investigations are made on synthetic examples as well as on the real-world datasets. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed modeling approach in comparison with other existing approaches.
Mobile parallel robots (MPR), which structurally configured a moving platform and several parallel limbs with an actuating wheel at the end of each limb, exhibit advantages in high mobility, high load capability and high flexibility in complex task environments. In this paper, a 6-DOF MPR with 3-PPUU (Prismatic-Prismatic Universal-Universal) limbs is proposed. The structural scheme and inverse kinematics are first presented; the orientational workspace and the dexterity of the MPR are analyzed in detail. A parametric optimal design model is then developed; the optimal scheme of the MPR is obtained. The constant-posture control scheme and algorithm arc also proposed in this paper. A prototype of the 3-PPUU MPR with omni-orientational wheels is developed and the precision for both translation and orientation of the prototype is measured by experiments, which verify the feasibility of the proposed NI PR scheme.
This paper investigates the flocking problem for leader follower multi-agent systems in directed graphs with switching topology. A decentralized state control rule, namely, a second-order protocol, is designed for each agent to track the leader. And it is proved that the proposed control scheme can effectively estimate the tracking error of each agent when the leader is active. Particularly, to ensure the tracking error can be estimated, the following two questions are solved: (1) How many agents are needed to connect to the leader? (2) How should these connections be distributed? Finally, a simple example is also given to verify the effectiveness of the proposed theorems. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper presents the design of dual heuristic programming (DHP) for the optimal coordination of ramp metering in freeway systems. Specifically, we implement the DHP method to solve both recurrent and nonrecurrent congestions with queuing consideration. A coordinated neural network controller is achieved by the DHP method with traffic models. Then, it is used for verifications with different traffic scenarios. Simulation studies performed on a hypothetical freeway indicate that the achieved neural controller maintains good control performance when compared with the classical ramp metering algorithm ALINEA. We emphasize that these neural controllers can be developed offline by using approximate traffic models. This offline mechanism avoids the risks of instability that incur during continual online training. We also discuss some real-time implementation issues.
For the last two decades, intelligent transportation systems (ITS) have emerged as an efficient way of improving the performance of transportation systems, enhancing travel security, and providing more choices to travelers. A significant change in ITS in recent years is that much more data are collected from a variety of sources and can be processed into various forms for different stakeholders. The availability of a large amount of data can potentially lead to a revolution in ITS development, changing an ITS from a conventional technology-driven system into a more powerful multifunctional data-driven intelligent transportation system ((DITS)-I-2): a system that is vision, multisource, and learning algorithm driven to optimize its performance. Furthermore, (DITS)-I-2 is trending to become a privacy-aware people-centric more intelligent system. In this paper, we provide a survey on the development of (DITS)-I-2, discussing the functionality of its key components and some deployment issues associated with (DITS)-I-2. Future research directions for the development of (DITS)-I-2 is also presented.
This paper focuses on modeling and intelligent control of the new Eight-Rotor MAV which is used to solve the problem of low coefficient proportion between lift and gravity for Quadrotor MAV. The dynamical and kinematical modeling for the Eight-Rotor MAV was developed which has never been proposed before. Based on the achieved dynamic modeling, two types of controller were presented. One type, a PID controller is derived in a conventional way with simplified dynamics and turns out to be quite sensitive to sensor noise as well as external perturbation. The second type controller is the Neuro-Fuzzy adaptive controller which is composed of two type-II fuzzy neural networks (T-IIFNNs) and one PD controller: The PD controller is adopted to control the attitude, one of the T-IIFNNs is designed to learn the inverse model of Eight-Rotor MAV on-line, the other one is the copy of the former one to compensate for model errors and external disturbances, both structure and parameters of T-IIFNNs are tuned on-line at the same time, and then the stability of the Eight-Rotor MAV closed-loop control system is proved using Lyapunov stability theory. Finally, the validity of the proposed control method has been verified through real-time experiments. The experimental results show that the performance of Neuro-Fuzzy adaptive controller performs very well under sensor noise and external disturbances, and has more superiority than traditional PID controller.
Wiring of vascular and neural networks requires precise guidance of growing blood vessels and axons, respectively, to reach their targets during development. Both of the processes share common molecular signaling pathways. Transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) channels are calcium-permeable cation channels and gated via receptor- or store-operated mechanisms. Recent studies have revealed the requirement of TRPC channels in mediating guidance cue-induced calcium influx and their essential roles in regulating axon navigation and angiogenesis. Dissecting TRPC functions in these physiological processes may provide therapeutic implications for suppressing pathological angiogenesis and improving nerve regeneration.
Understanding why neural systems can process information extremely fast is a fundamental question in theoretical neuroscience. The present study investigates the effect of noise on accelerating neural computation. To evaluate the speed of network response, we consider a computational task in which the network tracks time-varying stimuli. Two noise structures are compared, namely, the stimulus-dependent and stimulus-independent noises. Based on a simple linear integrate-and-fire model, we theoretically analyze the network dynamics, and find that the stimulus-dependent noise, whose variance is proportional to the mean of external inputs, has better effect on speeding up network computation. This is due to two good properties in the transient network dynamics: (1) the instant firing rate of the network is proportional to the mean of external inputs, and (2) the stationary state of the network is robust to stimulus changes. We investigate two network models with varying recurrent interactions, and find that recurrent interactions tend to slow down the tracking speed of the network. When the biologically plausible Hodgkin-Huxley model is considered, we also observe that the stimulus-dependent noise accelerates neural computation, although the improvement is smaller than that in the case of linear integrate-and-fire model. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Solution capacity limited estimation of distribution algorithm (L-EDA) is proposed and applied to ovarian cancer prognosis biomarker discovery to expatiate on its potential in metabonomics studies. Sera from healthy women, epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), recurrent EOC and non-recurrent EOC patients were analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The metabolite data were processed by L-EDA to discover potential EOC prognosis biomarkers. After L-EDA filtration, 78 out of 714 variables were selected, and the relationships among four groups were visualized by principle component analysis, it was observed that with the L-EDA filtered variables, non-recurrent EOC and recurrent EOC groups could be separated, which was not possible with the initial data. Five metabolites (six variables) with P < 0.05 in Wilcoxon test were discovered as potential EOC prognosis biomarkers, and their classification accuracy rates were 86.9% for recurrent EOC and non-recurrent EOC, and 88.7% for healthy + non-recurrent EOC and EOC + recurrent EOC. The results show that L-EDA is a powerful tool for potential biomarker discovery in metabonomics study.
Without any sample pretreatment, oil samples smeared on slide were directly detected by surface desorption atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry (DAPCI-MS), the mass spectra rapidly recorded by DAPCI-MS were subjected to data processing for classification using improved BP(Back Propagation) neural networks. The results showed that DAPCI-MS was a practically convenient tool for edible and hogwash oil detection without much matrix effect. The improved BP neural network can be applied to the simultaneous determination of hogwash-standard oil and different kinds of edible oil samples. The data demonstrated that the DAPCI-MS combined improved BP neural network methods was a promising technique for edible oil rapid identification with expedite convergence pace and superior prediction precision.
Alteration of natural flow regime due to reservoir operation imposes serious impacts on the aquatic ecosystem. To investigate the effects on the spatial distribution of macroinvertebrates, this study developed a hybrid ecohydraulics model which integrated a two-dimensional water quality module with an artificial neural network (ANN) based macroinvertebrate habitat module. The developed model was applied to a compound channel in the middle of the Lijiang River, where the flow in dry season has been largely modified by the Qingshitan Reservoir in the upstream. Semisulcospira amurensis (S. amurensis) which is the dominant macroinvertebrate species in the whole river basin was studied. The simulation and comparison results indicate that in general the flow regulation in dry season has negative impacts on the distribution of S. amurensis. The distribution area decreases, and in particular it becomes seriously fragmented. The model can be used through scenario analyses to adjust reservoir operation, so as to improve river management for ecological interest. In addition, the hybrid approach proposed in the paper has great potentials in studying this type of problems. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The laser ranging has extensive detection range and high measurement accuracy and so it is widely applied in navigation systems of the autonomous robot. But different environmental conditions have different influences on the transmission of the laser, producing errors of various degrees to measurement. The proposed range of influence in research on laser ranging LMS200 which is used in robot navigation under dissimilar conditions, by analyzing the primary factor that affects LMS200 ranging in a room and outside, contributing to the experimental contrast, obtaining experimental effects under environmentally influencing factors, discovering reflectivity, incidence, mixed pixel and visibility and so on that are environmental factors truly affecting practical application, builds the foundation for carrying out the ranging application of robot navigation. Mobile robots need enough sensor information of movements for carrying out autonomous navigation. The information establishment environment model in the completely unknown environment, depends upon itself to provide sensors to the robot that carries out autonomous localization and navigation. This paper also systematically introduces the applied research of laser ranging in mobile robot autonomous navigation, carrying out the scanning of the environment through the two-dimensional rangefinder sensor, proposed in autonomous navigation of map building and localization that uses two-dimensional scanning to obtain three-dimensional data stream, the experiment confirms that this algorithm allows the robot to obtain a very good three-dimensional visual structure drawing.
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and dibenzofurans (PCDFs) binding with the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) have been correlated with many toxic responses. Hence, it is very necessary to study the interactions between these ligands and AhR for further understanding of the mechanism of toxicity. In this study, an integrated molecular docking and 3D-QSAR approach was employed to investigate the binding interactions between PCBs, PCDDs, PCDFs and AhR. From molecular docking, hydrogen-bonding and hydrophobic interactions were observed to be characteristic interactions between compounds and AhR. Based on the mechanism of interactions, an optimum 3D-QSAR model with good robustness (Q(CUM)(2) = 0.907) and predictability (Q(EXT)(2) = 0.863) was developed by partial least squares. Additionally, the developed QSAR model indicated that the molecular size, shape profiles, polarizability and electropological states of compounds were related to the binding affinities to AhR. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A novel centralized approach for Dynamic Spectrum Allocation (DSA) in the Cognitive Radio (CR) network is presented in this paper. Instead of giving the solution in terms of formulas modeling network environment such as linear programming or convex optimization, the new approach obtains the capability of iteratively on-line learning environment performance by using Reinforcement Learning (RL) algorithm after observing the variability and uncertainty of the heterogeneous wireless networks. Appropriate decision-making access actions can then be obtained by employing Fuzzy Inference System (FIS) which ensures the strategy being able to explore the possible status and exploit the experiences sufficiently. The new approach considers multi-objective such as spectrum efficiency and fairness between CR Access Points (AP) effectively. By interacting with the environment and accumulating comprehensive advantages, it can achieve the largest long-term reward expected on the desired objectives and implement the best action. Moreover, the present algorithm is relatively simple and does not require complex calculations. Simulation results show that the proposed approach can get better performance with respect to fixed frequency planning scheme or general dynamic spectrum allocation policy.
We combine the GALFORM semi-analytical model of galaxy formation, which predicts the star formation and merger histories of galaxies, the GRASIL spectrophotometric code, which calculates the spectral energy distributions of galaxies self-consistently, including reprocessing of radiation by dust, and artificial neural networks to investigate the clustering properties of galaxies selected by their emission at submillimetre (submm) wavelengths [submm galaxies (SMGs)]. We use the Millennium Simulation to predict the spatial and angular distribution of SMGs. At redshift z = 2, we find that these galaxies are strongly clustered, with a comoving correlation length of r(0) = 5.6 +/- 0.9 h(-1) Mpc for galaxies with 850-mu m flux densities brighter than 5 mJy, in agreement with observations. We predict that at higher redshifts, these galaxies trace denser and increasingly rarer regions of the universe. We present the predicted dependence of the clustering on luminosity, submm colour and halo and stellar masses. Interestingly, we predict tight relations between the correlation length and the halo and stellar masses, independent of submm luminosity.
Here we report a novel single-walled carbon nanotube (SWNT) based bimorph electromechanical actuator, which consists of unique as-grown SWNT films as double electrode layers separated by a chitosan electrolyte layer consisting of an ionic liquid. By taking advantage of the special hierarchical structure and the outstanding electrical and mechanical properties of the SWNT film electrodes, our actuators show orders-of-magnitude improvements in many aspects compared to previous ionic electroactive polymer (i-EAP) actuators, including superfast response (19 ms), quite wide available frequency range (dozens to hundreds of Hz), incredible large stress generating rate (1080 MPa/s), and ultrahigh mechanical output power density (244 W/kg). These remarkable achievements together with their facile fabrication, low driving voltage, flexibility, and long durability enable the SWNT-based actuators many applications such as artificial muscles for biomimetic flying insects or robots and flexible deployable reflectors.
In general, localization is a very important step in the manufacturing process, which can be considered as a prior process of assembly, machining, transportation, etc. Localization can be achieved with or without sensors. Compared with localization with sensors, localization without sensors can be more reliable, cheaper, and can have lower requirements on the environment. For example, localization without sensors can be achieved in a dark environment. However, it is more restrictive to the condition of the system. Localization of 2-D objects without sensors has been deeply investigated. Some theoretical results on 3-D-object localization without sensors have been given. On the other hand, some work has been carried out that tries to find methods to reduce uncertainties in the 3-D orientation of a polyhedron (i.e., the orientation of the polyhedron in a 3-D space). However, to the best of our knowledge, no practical and effective methods have been proposed, so far, to localize a polyhedron from any initial 3-D orientation to a unique 3-D orientation without sensors. This paper aims to find conditions and strategies for 3-D objects to be rotated from an unknown initial stable state to a unique stable state without sensors. The main contributions of this paper are given as follows: 1) It is discovered and proved that there are two classes of 3-D objects that can be rotated into a unique state from an arbitrary initial state without sensory feedback. 2) For these two classes of objects, the practical strategies are presented, and one example for each class is given to show the validity of the strategy. 3) Based on the above results, the robotic system and localization operations are illustrated, and some experimental results are given.
The multi-axis force sensor (MFS) has been extensively adopted in humanoid robot foot to obtain external forces/moments acted on the foot while in locomotion. The precision and comprehensive performances of MFS originally determined by its elastomer structure are significant essentially for humanoid robots to keep balance by detection of external forces/moments during walking motion. The reason for the transmission of coupling-error of structure is analyzed and then the optimum method for the function of objective-optimization of MFS compliance matrix, Finite Element Method (FEM), orthogonal design and range analysis method are all proposed synthetically. In addition, the comprehensive performances of MFS designed by the optimum method are analyzed and elaborated in a concrete design case. Finally, the main indexes of the MFS are verified experimentally through humanoid robot's dynamic walking motion. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In a companion paper published elsewhere [4], we proposed a design approach based on the general redundancy concept to improving the dynamic performance of a mechanism, especially shaking moment and driving torque attenuation. The approach was based on the redundancy function of the servomotor, so the approach is called redundancy servomotor (RSM). In this paper, we apply the RSM to the path generator problem in mechanism design. We will demonstrate how path generator design and dynamic performance improvement can be performed in an integrated manner with the RSM approach. The proposed RSM design procedure can be applied to any type of path generators (four-bar linkage, five-bar linkage, etc.). The contribution of this paper is the proposed RSM design procedure and technique with which to result in a path generator with a better dynamic performance. The other contribution is the proposed approach to the design of the servomotor's trajectory or plan, which is useful to the joint-level path planning problem in robotics. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Integral membrane proteins constitute 25-30% of genomes and play crucial roles in many biological processes. However, less than 1% of membrane protein structures are in the Protein Data Bank. In this context, it is important to develop reliable computational methods for predicting the structures of membrane proteins. Here, we present the first application of random forest (RF) for residue-residue contact prediction in transmembrane proteins, which we term as TMhhcp. Rigorous cross-validation tests indicate that the built RF models provide a more favorable prediction performance compared with two state-of-the-art methods, i.e., TMHcon and MEMPACK. Using a strict leave-one-protein-out jackknifing procedure, they were capable of reaching the top L/5 prediction accuracies of 49.5% and 48.8% for two different residue contact definitions, respectively. The predicted residue contacts were further employed to predict interacting helical pairs and achieved the Matthew's correlation coefficients of 0.430 and 0.424, according to two different residue contact definitions, respectively. To facilitate the academic community, the TMhhcp server has been made freely accessible at http://protein.cau.edu.cn/tmhhcp.
Although previous studies have shown that sleep can inspire insight, it is still unclear whether meditation can promote insight. Meditation differs from other types of passive rest such as relaxation and sleep because it requires full consciousness and mindfulness of targets such as one's breathing. Forty-eight university students without meditation experience were recruited to learn a simple meditation technique. They were given a list of 10 insight problems to solve (the pre-test session). In this study, we focused on the unsolved problems and examined if they could be successfully solved after a 20 min rest interval with or without meditation. Results showed that relative to the control group that listened to Chinese or English words and made a language judgment, the groups who learned meditation successfully solved significantly more failed problems from the pre-test session, providing direct evidence for the role of meditation in promoting insight. Further analysis showed that maintaining a mindful and alert state during meditation (raising a hand to report every 10 deep breaths compared to every 100 deep breaths) resulted in more insight regarding the failed items from the pre-test session. This implies that it was watchfulness in meditation, rather than relaxation, that actually contributed to insight. Consistently, in the meditation session or control task, the percentage of alpha waves-a brain index of mental relaxation-was negatively correlated with insight. These results suggest a meditation-based insight-promoting mechanism different from that involved in passive rest such as relaxation and sleep.
This paper presents a formal theory to characterize symmetry in netlists and symmetry in properties. The inherent correlation between the two types of symmetry is formalized as a theorem, which provides the soundness of our symmetry reduction method. A practical tactic is introduced to effectively integrate the symmetry reduction approach in a hybrid verification environment which combines theorem proving and symbolic trajectory evaluation. Finally, the effecitveness of the symmetry reduction method is demonstrated by case studies.
A new real-time algorithm for the autonomous navigation of mobile robots equipped with laser scanners is proposed in this paper. Different from the existing algorithms designed for 2-dimensional navigation problems, the new algorithm introduces the height information of the obstacles into the guidance process and behaves as a 2.5-dimensional angle potential field algorithm (2.5D-APF) to fulfill the navigation requirements under complex outdoor terrain conditions. First, one laser scan is partitioned into two kinds of function sectors: guidance sector and inspecting sector. Then, the guidance sector and the inspecting sectors are reconstructed to form a virtual guidance scan, where the 2.5D information is taken into account. Finally, the conventional APF is improved to analyze the virtual guidance scan and generate the navigation orders. The new algorithm is tested on a tracked mobile robot, and the experimental results validate the proposed algorithm.
Regeneration of dehumidizers (a typical drying process) is the most important stage in the working cycle of desiccant system. Ultrasonic technology, as a non-heating method, can enhance drying kinetics and improve energy utilization efficiency in the drying process. This work has made an investigation on five different drying models, i.e., the Lewis, the Henderson & Pabis, the Logarithmic, the Weibull and the Gaussian model, that quantify the drying kinetics of silica gel during the regeneration by hot air combined with power ultrasonic according to the experimental data. The experiments were performed under different drying air temperatures (i.e. 45 degrees C, 55 degrees C, 65 degrees C and 75 degrees C) plus power ultrasonic with three kinds of frequencies (i.e. 21 kHz, 26 kHz and 38 kHz) and three power levels (20W, 40W and 60W). The models were identified by fitting the experimental data with Matlab's curve fitting tool, and the suitability of these models for predicting the moisture ratio evolution in silica gel during the regeneration was evaluated by the percent error (PE, %). The results showed that the Gaussian and the Weibull model were much more accurate than the other ones in describing the drying kinetics of silica gel assisted by the power ultrasonic. The parameter, beta, in the Weibull model, which is like the drying rate constant (K) in the semi-theoretical models (e.g., the Lewis, the Henderson & Pabis and the Logarithmic model), can be found to have a regular relation with the drying temperatures, and hence, will be more convenient for modeling. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A distributed protocol is proposed for a modified consensus problem of a network of agents that have the same continuous-time linear dynamics. Each agent estimates its own state using its output information and then sends the estimated state to its neighbor agents for the purpose of reaching a consensus. The modified consensus problem requires the group decision value to be a linear function of initial states and initial estimated states of all agents in the network, and the transformation matrix associated with this linear function not to be a zero matrix. It is proved that under the proposed control protocol, the modified consensus problem can be solved if and only if the system matrices of the agent's dynamics are stabilizable and detectable, the input matrix is not a zero matrix, and the communication topology graph has a spanning tree. The proposed protocol can also be extended to multi-agent systems where agents are described by discrete-time linear dynamics. The corresponding necessary and sufficient conditions are provided as well. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
To reduce tedious work in cartoon animation, some computer-assisted systems including automatic Inbetweening and cartoon reusing systems have been proposed. In existing automatic Inbetweening systems, accurate correspondence construction, which is a prerequisite for Inbetweening, cannot be achieved. For cartoon reusing systems, the lack of efficient similarity estimation method and reusing mechanism makes it impractical for the users. The semi-supervised graph-based cartoon reusing approach proposed in this paper aims at generating smooth cartoons from the existing data. In this approach, the similarity between cartoon frames can be accurately evaluated by calculating the distance based on local shape context, which is expected to be rotation and scaling invariant. By the semi-supervised algorithm, given an initial frame, the most similar cartoon frames in the cartoon library are selected as candidates of the next frame. The smooth cartoons can be generated by carrying out the algorithm repeatedly to select new cartoon frames after the cartoonists specifying the motion path in a background image. Experimental results of the candidate frame selection in our cartoon dataset suggest the effectiveness of the proposed local shape context for similarity evaluation. The other experiments show the excellent performance on cartoon generation of our approach.
Exchange rate prediction is an important yet challenging problem in financial time series analysis. Although the historical exchange rates can provide valuable information, other factors will also affect the prediction significantly. These factors could be numerical or non-numerical ones, which are related to politics, economics, military, or even market psychology. Previous automatic exchange rate prediction merely considers numerical data (or simply the historical rates) for predicting the next day value. In this paper, we show how to utilize and combine many related factors, both numerical and non-numerical factors, for exchange rate prediction. With an example on forecasting exchange rate between US dollar and Japanese yen, we investigate how to exploit the information from non-numerical factors. We then engage a novel integrated approach which successfully combines information obtained from both numerical and non-numerical factors. We show how to quantify the non-numerical fundamental information, provide details steps on how to construct single predictors on different kinds of information separately, and finally describe how to integrate these separate predictors. Experimental results showed that our method can achieve the Directional Symmetry (DS) accuracy of 86.96%, which is much higher than only exploiting numerical information.
This paper investigates the synchronization of complex systems with delay that are impulsively coupled at discrete instants only. Based on the comparison theorem of impulsive differential system, a distributed impulsive control scheme is proposed to achieve the synchronization for systems with delay. In the control strategy, the influence of all nodes to network synchronization relies on its weight. The proposed control scheme is applied to the chaotic delayed Hopfield neural networks and numerical simulations are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme. (C) 2011 American Institute of Physics. [doi:10.1063/1.3633081]
How to design a production process with low carbon emissions and low environmental impact as well as high manufacturing performance is a key factor in the success of low-carbon production. It is important to address concerns about climate change for the large carbon emission source manufacturing industries because of their high energy consumption and environmental impact during the manufacturing stage of the production life cycle. In this paper, methodology for determining a production process is developed. This methodology integrates process determination from three different levels: new production processing, selected production processing and batch production processing. This approach is taken within a manufacturing enterprise based on prior research. The methodology is aimed at providing decision support for implementing Environmentally Benign Manufacturing (EBM) and low-carbon production to improve the environmental performance of the manufacturing industry. At the first level, a decision-making model for new production processes based on the Genetic Simulated Annealing Algorithm (GSAA) is presented. The decision-making model considers not only the traditional factors, such as time, quality and cost, but also energy and resource consumption and environmental impact, which are different from the traditional methods. At the second level, a methodology is developed based on an IPO (Input-Process-Output) model that integrates assessments of resource consumption and environmental impact in terms of a materials balance principle for batch production processes. At the third level, based on the above two levels, a method for determining production processes that focus on low-carbon production is developed based on case-based reasoning, expert systems and feature technology for designing the process flow of a new component. Through the above three levels, a method for determining the production process to identify, quantify, assess, and optimize the production process with the goal of reducing and ultimately minimizing the environmental impact while maximizing the resource efficiency is effectively presented. The feasibility of the method is verified by a case study of a whole production process design at the above three levels.
In this paper, we consider discrete-time distributed average-consensus with limited communication data-rate and time-varying communication topologies. We design a distributed encoding-decoding scheme based on quantization of scaled innovations and a control protocol based on a symmetric compensation method. We develop an adaptive scheme to select the numbers of quantization levels according to whether the associated channel is active or not. We prove that if the network is jointly connected, then under the protocol designed, average-consensus can be asymptotically achieved, and the convergence rate is quantified. Especially, if the duration of any link failure in the network is bounded, then the control gain and the scaling function can be selected properly such that 5-level quantizers suffice for asymptotic average-consensus with an exponential convergence rate. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
For the inaccuracy of endmember extraction caused by abnormal noises of data during the mixed pixel decomposition process, particle swarm optimization (PSO), a swarm intelligence algorithm was introduced and improved in the present paper. By re-defining the position and velocity representation and data updating strategies, the algorithm of discrete particle swarm optimization (D-PSO) was proposed, which made it possible to search resolutions in discrete space and ultimately resolve combinatorial optimization problems. In addition, by defining objective functions and feasible solution spaces, endmember extraction was converted to combinatorial optimization problem, which can be resolved by D-PSO. After giving the detailed flow of applying D-PSO to endmember extraction and experiments based on simulative data and real data, it has been verified the algorithm's flexibility to handle data with abnormal noise and the reliability of endmember extraction were verified. Furthermore, the influence of different parameters on the algorithm's performances was analyzed thoroughly.
In this paper, a controller for robot manipulators is proposed to guarantee the tracking error of the systems bounded by predefined decreasing boundary. In this control scheme, a multi-layer neural network is used to approximate the unknown non-linear items, and the robustifying control term is used to compensate the approximation errors. The adaptive laws of weights of the neural network and robustifying control term are derived based on the Lyapunov stability analysis, so that, under appropriate assumptions, the transient and steady-state error bounds can be guaranteed. Compared with the existing work, the adaptable parameters in the proposed method do not need an off-line training procedure for better approximation. Simulations performed on a two-link robot manipulator illustrate the developed controller and demonstrate its performance.
The six-axis force sensor (SFS) can obtain the orthogonal forces and moments and extensively adopted in humanoid robot foot to achieve stability and balance while in locomotion. The precision and comprehensive performances of SFS originally determined by its elastomer structure are essentially significant for humanoid robots to maintain stability and walking dynamically on uneven terrain. The reason for the transmission of coupling-error of structure is analyzed and then the optimum method for the function of objective-optimization of sensor compliance matrix, Finite Element Method (FEM), orthogonal design and range analysis method are all proposed. In addition, the comprehensive performances of SFS designed by the optimum method are analyzed and elaborated in a concrete example. Finally, the feasibility and practicality of the SFS are verified effectively through robot's dynamic walking experiments.
A number of spectroscopic surveys have been carried out or are planned to study the origin of the Milky Way. Their exploitation requires reliable automated methods and softwares to measure the fundamental parameters of the stars. Adopting the ULySS package, we have tested the effect of different resolutions and signal-to-noise ratios (SNR) on the measurement of the stellar atmospheric parameters (effective temperature T-eff, surface gravity log g, and metallicity [Fe/H]). We show that ULySS is reliable for determining these parameters with medium-resolution spectra (R similar to 2000). Then, we applied the method to measure the parameters of 771 stars selected in the commissioning database of the Guoshoujing Telescope (LAMOST). The results were compared with the SDSS/SEGUE Stellar Parameter Pipeline (SSPP), and we derived precisions of 167K, 0.34 dex, and 0.16 dex for T-eff, log g and [Fe/H] respectively. Furthermore, 120 of these stars are selected to construct the primary stellar spectral template library (Version 1.0) of LAMOST, and will be deployed as basic ingredients for the LAMOST automated parametrization pipeline.
Over the last ten years, the consensus of multi-agent systems (MAS) has received increasing attention from mechanics, mathematics, physics, engineering sciences, social sciences, and so on. It is well known that the robustness of consensus of MAS is usually determined by several key factors, including noise, time-delays, and packet drop. In this paper, we introduce a general time-delayed MAS model with noise and also further investigate its robust consensus. In particular, we prove that the proposed algorithm is robust against the bounded time-varying delays and bounded noises. The effectiveness and robustness of the proposed consensus algorithm has been validated in the classical Vicsek model with time-varying delays. And two simulation examples are also given to justify the above theoretical results. These results may have some potential applications in various fields, including mechanics, biology, and engineering sciences.
An average consensus protocol is proposed for continuous-time double-integrator multi-agent systems with measurement noises under fixed topologies. The time-varying control gain is employed to attenuate noises. The closed-loop system is therefore a time-varying linear stochastic differential equation. By determining the state transition matrix of this closed-loop system, the dynamic characteristics of the multi-agent system can be fully described. It is proved that in the noisy communication environment the average consensus can be achieved if and only if the communication topology is a balanced and strongly connected graph, and the time-varying control gain satisfies the stochastic approximation-type conditions. Under the proposed protocol, the position of each agent is convergent in mean square to a common random variable whose mathematical expectation is the average of initial positions and initial velocities of all agents in the system, while each agent's velocity is convergent in mean square to a common random variable whose mathematical expectation and variance are both zero.
This paper discusses topology identification and adaptive synchronization of uncertain complex networks with adaptive the scaling functions. In comparison with those of the existing scaling function synchronization, the scaling function can be identified by adaptive laws in this paper. Moreover, the uncertain network topological structure are identified simultaneously in the process of synchronization. Illustrative examples are presented to demonstrate the application of the theoretical results. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is a key technology for mobile robots operating under unknown environment. While FastSLAM algorithm is a popular solution to the SLAM problem, it suffers from two major drawbacks: one is particle set degeneracy due to lack of observation information in proposal distribution design of the particle filter; the other is errors accumulation caused by linearization of the nonlinear robot motion model and the nonlinear environment observation model. For the purpose of overcoming the above problems, a new iterated sigma point FastSLAM (ISP-FastSLAM) algorithm is proposed. The main contribution of the algorithm lies in the utilization of iterated sigma point Kalman filter (ISPKF), which minimizes statistical linearization error through Gaussian-Newton iteration, to design an optimal proposal distribution of the particle filter and to estimate the environment landmarks. On the basis of Rao-Blackwellized particle filter, the proposed ISP-FastSLAM algorithm is comprised by two main parts: in the first part, an iterated sigma point particle filter (ISPPF) to localize the robot is proposed, in which the proposal distribution is accurately estimated by the ISPKF; in the second part, a set of ISPKFs is used to estimate the environment landmarks. The simulation test of the proposed ISP-FastSLAM algorithm compared with FastSLAM2.0 algorithm and Unscented FastSLAM algorithm is carried out, and the performances of the three algorithms are compared. The simulation and comparing results show that the proposed ISP-FastSLAM outperforms other two algorithms both in accuracy and in robustness. The proposed algorithm provides reference for the optimization research of FastSLAM algorithm.
Nowadays, multi-agent systems (MAS) are ubiquitous in the real world. Consensus is a fundamental natural phenomenon. Over the past decade, consensus of MAS has received increasing attention from various disciplines. This paper aims to further investigate a novel kind of cluster consensus of MAS with several different subgroups. Based on Markov chains and nonnegative matrix analysis, two novel cluster consensus criteria are obtained for MAS with fixed and switching topology, respectively. Furthermore, numerical simulations are also given to validate the effectiveness of these proposed criteria. The proposed cluster consensus criteria have some potential applications in real world engineering systems. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Based on locally linear embedding (LLE) and modified maximizing margin criterion (MMMC), a modified locally linear discriminant embedding (MLLDE) algorithm is proposed for plant leaf recognition in this paper. By MLLDE, the plant leaf images are mapped into a leaf subspace for analysis, which can detect the essential leaf manifold structure. Furthermore, the unwanted variations resulting from changes in period, location, and illumination can be eliminated or reduced. Different from principal component analysis (PCA) and linear discriminant analysis (LDA), which can only deal with flat Euclidean structures of plant leaf space, MLLDE not only inherits the advantages of locally linear embedding (LLE), but makes full use of class information to improve discriminant power by introducing translation and rescaling models. The experimental results on real plant leaf database show that the MLLDE is effective for plant leaf recognition. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A new wideband model for on-chip complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) interconnects is developed by virtue of a space-mapping neural network (SMNN) technique. In this approach, two subneural networks are used for improving the reliability and generalization ability of the model. This approach also presents a new methodology for data generation and training of the two neural networks. Two different structures are used for the two subneural networks to address different physical effects. Instead of the S parameters, the admittances of sub-block neural networks are used as optimization targets for training so that different physical effects can be addressed individually. This model is capable of featuring frequency-variant characteristics of radio-frequency interconnects in terms of frequency-independent circuit components with two subneural networks. In comparison with results from rigorous electromagnetic (EM) simulations, this SMNN model can achieve good accuracy with an average error less than 2% up to 40 GHz. Moreover, it has much enhanced learning and generalization capabilities and as fast as equivalent circuit while preserves the accuracy of detailed EM simulations. (C) 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Int J RF and Microwave CAE 21:439-445, 2011.
Global solar radiation (GSR) is required in a large number of fields. Many parameterization schemes are developed to estimate it using routinely measured meteorological variables, since GSR is directly measured at a limited number of stations. Even so, meteorological stations are sparse, especially, in remote areas. Satellite signals (radiance at the top of atmosphere in most cases) can be used to estimate continuous GSR in space. However, many existing remote sensing products have a relatively coarse spatial resolution and these inversion algorithms are too complicated to be mastered by experts in other research fields. In this study, the artificial neural network (ANN) is utilized to build the mathematical relationship between measured monthly-mean daily GSR and several high-level remote sensing products available for the public, including Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) monthly averaged land surface temperature (LST), the number of days in which the LST retrieval is performed in 1 month, MODIS enhanced vegetation index, Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission satellite (TRMM) monthly precipitation. After training, GSR estimates from this ANN are verified against ground measurements at 12 radiation stations. Then, comparisons are performed among three GSR estimates, including the one presented in this study, a surface data-based estimate, and a remote sensing product by Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA). Validation results indicate that the ANN-based method presented in this study can estimate monthly-mean daily GSR at a spatial resolution of about 5 km with high accuracy. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd All rights reserved.
Single nanochannels as promising candidates for mimicking the ionic rectification of biological ion channels have attracted intense interest in recent years. Most rectifying properties of the biomimetic single nanochannels were studied with asymmetric conical structures. In this article, we develop biomimetic ionic rectifier systems from single hour glass-shaped polymeric nanochannels using asymmetric ion sputtering of Au and Pt. X-ray photoelectron spectra and contact angle measurements were used to determine Au and Pt depositions on the polymeric membranes. Four different composed nanochannels were fabricated with either symmetric or asymmetric sputtering method. The ionic transport properties of these nanochannels were characterized by transmembrane current measurements. The results reveal that the nanochannels with asymmetric compositions can rectify ionic current effectively. This work provides a basic platform to obtain rectifications in symmetric nanochannels, moreover, the channels would also have promising applications in intelligent systems because of their biomimetic ionic transport properties and convenience to be modified further. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The gripping contact forces distributed between the interface of the tongs and the work-piece of the gripper of forging robots are considered as an equivalent resultant force whose contact model is friction point contact. So the gripping operation is similar to multi fingered robot hands, and the operation theory of N robot fingers to grasp an object can be used for the analysis of the force-closure and the optimization of contact forces of heavy gripping mechanisms. After the configuration of heavy duty gripping mechanisms is analyzed, the position distribution of the resultant contact forces is optimized, the iterative algorithm of linear constrained gradient flows is used to calculate and analyze force-closure conditions. The force closure features for different forging robots and in different operation conditions and mechanisms are analyzed. Simulation and experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the force-closure method.
This paper presents a new approach for the calibration and control of spark ignition engines using a combination of neural networks and sliding mode control technique. Two parallel neural networks are utilized to realize a neuro-sliding mode control (NSLMC) for self-learning control of automotive engines. The equivalent control and the corrective control terms are the outputs of the neural networks. Instead of using error backpropagation algorithm, the network weights of equivalent control are updated using the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm. Moreover, a new approach is utilized to update the gain of corrective control. Both modifications of the NSLMC are aimed at improving the transient performance and speed of convergence. Using the data from a test vehicle with a V8 engine, we built neural network models for the engine torque (TRQ) and the air-to-fuel ratio (AFR) dynamics and developed NSLMC controllers to achieve tracking control. The goal of TRQ control and AFR control is to track the commanded values under various operating conditions. From simulation studies, the feasibility and efficiency of the approach are illustrated. For both control problems, excellent tracking performance has been achieved.
There has been a long history of using fuzzy-language equivalence to compare the behavior of fuzzy systems; however, the comparison at this level is too coarse. Recently, a finer behavioral measure, i.e., bisimulation, has been introduced to fuzzy-finite automata. However, the results obtained are applicable only to finite-state systems. In this paper, we consider bisimulation for general fuzzy systems, which may be infinite state or infinite event, by modeling them as fuzzy-transition systems (FTSs). To help understand and check bisimulation, we characterize it in three ways by enumerating whole transitions, comparing individual transitions, and using a monotonic function. In addition, we address composition operations, subsystems, quotients, and homomorphisms of FTSs and discuss their properties connected with bisimulation. The results presented here are useful to compare the behavior of general fuzzy systems. In particular, this makes it possible to relate an infinite fuzzy system to a finite one, which is easier to analyze, with the same behavior.
Strong positive correlation between sporadic E layers and the solar activity and the long-term declining trend of Es were found in this paper. Then the feed-forward back propagation neural networks (NNs) were used to simulate the long-term variation of Es at four stations and predict foEs yearly average values. The inputs used for NNs are the yearly mean values of foEs in the daytime of the past ten years and the yearly averaged data of solar 10.7 cm radio flux (F107) of the present year, and the output is the present yearly mean value of daytime foEs. The outputs of trained NNs have high correlation with the desired values and the foEs yearly mean values predicted by NNs have good agreement with the observed data. The results indicate that NNs can make full use of the observed data to simulate the long variation rule of Es. Also, the results confirm the effect of solar activity on Es. (C) 2011 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier Ltd . All rights reserved.
Classification is a main data mining task, which aims at predicting the class label of new input data on the basis of a set of pre-classified samples. Multiple criteria linear programming (MCLP) is used as a classification method in the data mining area, which can separate two or more classes by finding a discriminate hyperplane. Although MCLP shows good performance in dealing with linear separable data, it is no longer applicable when facing with nonlinear separable problems. A kernel-based multiple criteria linear programming (KMCLP) model is developed to solve nonlinear separable problems. In this method, a kernel function is introduced to project the data into a higher-dimensional space in which the data will have more chance to be linear separable. KMCLP performs well in some real applications. However, just as other prevalent data mining classifiers, MCLP and KMCLP learn only from training examples. In the traditional machine learning area, there are also classification tasks in which data sets are classified only by prior knowledge, i.e. expert systems. Some works combine the above two classification principles to overcome the faults of each approach. In this paper, we provide our recent works which combine the prior knowledge and the MCLP or KMCLP model to solve the problem when the input consists of not only training examples, but also prior knowledge. Specifically, how to deal with linear and nonlinear knowledge in MCLP and KMCLP models is the main concern of this paper. Numerical tests on the above models indicate that these models are effective in classifying data with prior knowledge. (C) 2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The consensus problem of linear multi-agent systems is addressed in this paper, and a consensus protocol based on the output information of neighbor agents is proposed. The sufficient conditions on the system consensus with a fixed topology are then given. Moveover, the consensus of the linear multi-agent systems with measurement noise is analyzed. The satisfactory performance of the proposed protocol is testified by simulation.
Motivation: Zinc-binding proteins are the most abundant metalloproteins in Protein Data Bank (PDB). Accurate prediction of zinc-binding sites in proteins of unknown function may provide important clues for the inference of protein function. As zinc binding is often associated with characteristic 3D arrangements of zinc ligand residues, its prediction may benefit from using not only the sequence information but also the structure information of proteins.
Water quality parameters including TOC, UV(254), pH, chlorine dosage, bromide concentration and disinfection by-products were measured in water samples from 41 water treatment plants of six selected cities in China. Chloroform, bromodichloromethane, dibromochloromethane, dichloroacetic acid and trichloroacetic acid were the major disinfection by-products in the drinking water of China. Bromoform and dibromoacetic acid were also detected in many water samples. Higher concentrations of trihalomethanes and haloacetic acids were measured in summer compared to winter. The geographical variations in DBPs showed that TTHM levels were higher in Zhengzhou and Tianjin than other selected cities. And the HAA5 levels were highest in Changsha and Tianjin. The modeling procedure that predicts disinfection by-products formation was studied and developed using artificial neural networks. The performance of the artificial neural networks model was excellent (r > 0.84).
A neural-network model was developed to retrieve the wave steepness (delta), which was used to represent the sea state (particularly wave state), from the European Remote Sensing (ERS) scatterometer onboard ERS-1/2. Using the retrieved delta and scatterometer wind speed, we calculated and examined the drag coefficient (C-D) over the global ocean. The results show that C-D changes significantly when wave steepness is included in the calculation. Combining wave steepness and wind speed increases C-D by nearly 14% on average. That change is spatially variable, ranging from -18.76% for the tropical Eastern Pacific Ocean to 104% for the Southern Ocean.
The current subprime mortgage crisis is a typical case for systemic risk in financial institutions. In order to further our understanding and communication about systemic risk management (SRM) in financial institutions, this paper proposes a knowledge level model (KLM) for systemic risk management in financial institutions. There are two parts considered in the proposed KLM: ontologies and problem solving method (PSM). Ontologies are adopted to represent a knowledge base of KLM, which integrates top level ontology and domain level ontologies. And then the problem solving method is given to show the reasoning process of this knowledge. The symbol level of KLM is also discussed which integrates OWL, SWRL and JESS. Further, the discussion about Lehman Brother's Minibonds case in 2008 is provided to illustrate how proposed KLM is used in practice. With these, first, they will enhance the interchange of information and knowledge sharing for SRM within a financial institution. Second, they will assist knowledge base development for SRM design, for which a prototype of financial systemic risk management decision support system is given in this study. Third, they will support coordination among different institutions by using standardized vocabularies. And finally, from the design science perspective, the whole proposed framework could be meaningful to models in other domains. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
An observability-controllability model of periphery (COMP) is presented based on the system theory. A soil erosion analysis approach is deduced based on the COMP and applied to the quantitative analysis of human influence on soil erosion from the controlled area of Check Dam Shipanmao in the hilly and gully region of the Loess Plateau in China. The controlled area of the check dam is regarded as a basin system. The system input, the system state and the system output of the basin system model are determined as the four erosive rainfall indexes (the maximum rainfall intensity in 30 min. the rainfall erosivity, the rainfall amount and the average rainfall intensity), the areas of four measures of soil and water conservation (the dam land area, the terrace area, the woodland area and the grassland area) and the layer amount of sediment deposited behind the check dam, respectively. Compared with traditional methods, the approach presented in this study is more practical and rational. The presented approach has a strong ability of analyzing the change trend of the human influence intensity in the controlled basin system of the check dam. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Background: Functional acupoint specificity is crucial to the clinical efficacy of acupuncture treatment, such as pain relief. Whether acupuncture needling at a peripheral acupoint produces distinct patterns of brain responses remains controversial.
Lake Chagan represents a complex situation of major optical constituents and emergent spectral signals for remote sensing analysis of water quality in the Songnen Plain. As such it provides a good test of the combined radiometric correction methods developed for optical remote sensing data to monitor water quality. Landsat thematic mapper (TM) data and in situ water samples collected concurrently with satellite overpass were used for the analysis, in which four important water quality parameters are considered: chlorophyll-a, turbidity, total dissolved organic matter, and total phosphorus in surface water. Both empirical regressions and neural networks were established to analyze the relationship between the concentrations of these four water parameters and the satellite radiance signals. It is found that the neural network model performed at better accuracy than empirical regressions with TM visible and near-infrared bands as spectral variables. The relative root mean square error (RMSE) for the neural network was < 10%, while the RMSE for the regressions was less than 25% in general. Future work is needed on establishing the dynamic characteristic of Chagan Lake water quality with TM or other optical remote sensing data. The algorithms developed in this study need to be further tested and refined with multidate imagery data (C) 2011 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE). [DOI: 10.1117/1.3559497]
The study considers the problem of global adaptive stabilisation for a class of uncertain non-linear systems in which the uncertainty may not be parameterised. With the aid of the partition technique of unity in differential topology, global approximation of a function using neural networks is obtained. The usefulness of the approximation theory is shown in the design of a global adaptive neural network controller. It is proved that the proposed design method is able to ensure boundedness of all the signals in the closed loop, and the state variables converge to zero asymptotically.
While the nonholonomic robots with no-slipping constraints are studied extensively nowadays, the slipping effect is inevitable in many practical applications and should be considered necessarily to achieve autonomous navigation and control purposes especially in outdoor environments. In this paper the robust point stabilization problem of a tracked mobile robot is discussed in the presence of track slipping, which can be treated as model perturbation that violates the pure nonholonomic constraints. The kinematic model of the tracked vehicle is created, in which the slipping is assumed to be a time-varying parameter under certain assumptions of track-soil interaction. By transforming the original system to the special chained form of nonholonomic system, the integrator backstepping procedure with a state-scaling technique is used to construct the controller to stabilize the system at the kinematic level. The global exponential stability of the final system can be guaranteed by Lyapunov theory. Simulation results with different initial states and slipping parameters demonstrate the fast convergence, robustness and insensitivity to the initial state of the proposed method.
This paper presents a new forest leaf area index (LAI) inversion method from multisource and multiangle data combined with a radiative transfer model and the strategy of k-means clustering and artificial neural network (ANN). Four scenes of Landsat-5 Thematic Mapper (L5TM) and Beijing-1 small satellite multispectral sensors (BJ1) images, acquired at different times, were selected to construct multisource and multiangle image data in this study. Considering a vertical distribution of forest LAI from both overstory and understory, a hybrid model of the invertible forest reflectance model (INFORM) was used to support the retrieval of forest LAI to eliminate the dependence of understory vegetation. The simulated data from INFORM outputs, added with a random noise, were first clustered by k-means method, and were then trained by ANN to obtain the inversion model for each group (cluster). Next, the inversion model was applied to the different combinations of multiangle data to retrieve the forest LAI. Finally, a validation of inverted results with Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer LAI product and field measurements was conducted. The experimental results indicate that the accuracy of the inverted forest LAI can be improved through the addition of observation angle data, if the quality of the image data is ensured. The inversion accuracy of LAI with the multiangle image data is improved by 30% compared to the average accuracy of the inverted LAI with the single angle data after considering the addition of random noise to the ANN training data.
This paper proposes an innovative design and investigation for a five-dimensional fingertip force/torque sensor with a dual annular diaphragm. This sensor can be applied to a robot hand to measure forces along the X-, Y- and Z-axes (F-x, F-y and F-z) and moments about the X- and Y-axes (M-x and M-y) simultaneously. Particularly, the details of the sensing principle, the structural design and the overload protection mechanism are presented. Afterward, based on the design of experiments approach provided by the software ANSYS (R), a finite element analysis and an optimization design are performed. These are performed with the objective of achieving both high sensitivity and stiffness of the sensor. Furthermore, static and dynamic calibrations based on the neural network method are carried out. Finally, an application of the developed sensor on a dexterous robot hand is demonstrated. The results of calibration experiments and the application show that the developed sensor possesses high performance and robustness.
In this paper, an efficient feature extraction algorithm called orthogonal local spline discriminant projection (O-LSDP) is proposed for face recognition. Derived from local spline embedding (LSE), O-LSDP not only inherits the advantages of LSE which uses local tangent space as a representation of the local geometry so as to preserve the local structure, but also makes full use of class information and orthogonal subspace to improve discriminant power. Extensive experiments on several standard face databases demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Despite the importance of cognitive control in many cognitive tasks involving uncertainty, the computational mechanisms of cognitive control in response to uncertainty remain unclear. In this study, we develop biologically realistic neural network models to investigate the instantiation of cognitive control in a majority function task, where one determines the category to which the majority of items in a group belong. Two models are constructed, both of which include the same set of modules representing task-relevant brain functions and share the same model structure. However, with a critical change of a model parameter setting, the two models implement two different underlying algorithms: one for grouping search (where a subgroup of items are sampled and re-sampled until a congruent sample is found) and the other for self-terminating search (where the items are scanned and counted one-by-one until the majority is decided). The two algorithms hold distinct implications for the involvement of cognitive control. The modeling results show that while both models are able to perform the task, the grouping search model fit the human data better than the self-terminating search model. An examination of the dynamics underlying model performance reveals how cognitive control might be instantiated in the brain for computing the majority function.
Proteases have central roles in "life and death" processes due to their important ability to catalytically hydrolyze protein substrates, usually altering the function and/or activity of the target in the process. Knowledge of the substrate specificity of a protease should, in theory, dramatically improve the ability to predict target protein substrates. However, experimental identification and characterization of protease substrates is often difficult and time-consuming. Thus solving the "substrate identification" problem is fundamental to both understanding protease biology and the development of therapeutics that target specific protease-regulated pathways. In this context, bioinformatic prediction of protease substrates may provide useful and experimentally testable information about novel potential cleavage sites in candidate substrates. In this article, we provide an overview of recent advances in developing bioinformatic approaches for predicting protease substrate cleavage sites and identifying novel putative substrates. We discuss the advantages and drawbacks of the current methods and detail how more accurate models can be built by deriving multiple sequence and structural features of substrates. We also provide some suggestions about how future studies might further improve the accuracy of protease substrate specificity prediction.
This study focuses on speaker adaptation techniques for Computer-Assisted Language Learning (CALL). We first investigate the effects and problems of Maximum Likelihood Linear Regression (MLLR) speaker adaptation when used in pronunciation evaluation. Automatic scoring and error detection experiments are conducted on two publicly available databases of Japanese learners' English pronunciation. As we expected, over-adaptation causes misjudgment of pronunciation accuracy. Following the analysis, we propose a novel method, Regularized Maximum Likelihood Regression (Regularized-MLLR) adaptation, to solve the problem of the adverse effects of MLLR adaptation. This method uses a group of teachers' data to regularize learners' transformation matrices so that erroneous pronunciations will not be erroneously transformed as correct ones. We implement this idea in two ways: one is using the average of the teachers' transformation matrices as a constraint to MLLR, and the other is using linear combinations of the teachers' matrices to represent learners' transformations. Experimental results show that the proposed methods can better utilize MLLR adaptation and avoid over-adaptation.
Four different forest restoration modes (Acacia mangium plantation, mixed-native species plantation, conifer plantation and Eucalyptus plantation) were evaluated using Energy System Theory and the emergy synthesis method. In addition, the eco-exergies of the four forest restoration modes were calculated, and combined with emergy and empower density to explore the restoration and self-organization efficiencies of these modes. The results showed that the two plantations of exotic species, especially the Acacia mangium plantation, were best for biomass accumulation and soil improvement, whereas the two plantations of native species, especially the mixed-native plantation, were more efficient in capturing the available natural resources. Transformity is an important emergy index for the evaluation of system efficiency, because it takes both input and output into account. In subtropical plantations, trees mainly contribute to eco-exergy, whereas herbs and shrubs mainly contribute to specific eco-exergy. The c-value Paradox does exist in conifer species in this study, and it could affect the eco-exergy evaluation. The joint use of eco-exergy and emergy analysis is helpful in comparing both different and similar kinds of ecosystems. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Communication data rate and energy constraints are important factors which have to be considered when investigating distributed coordination of multi-agent networks. Although many proposed average-consensus protocols are available, a fundamental theoretic problem remains open, namely, how many bits of information are necessary for each pair of adjacent agents to exchange at each time step to ensure average consensus? In this paper, we consider average-consensus control of undirected networks of discrete-time first-order agents under communication constraints. Each agent has a real-valued state but can only exchange symbolic data with its neighbors. A distributed protocol is proposed based on dynamic encoding and decoding. It is proved that under the protocol designed, for a connected network, average consensus can be achieved with an exponential convergence rate based on merely one bit information exchange between each pair of adjacent agents at each time step. An explicit form of the asymptotic convergence rate is given. It is shown that as the number of agents increases, the asymptotic convergence rate is related to the scale of the network, the number of quantization levels and the ratio of the second smallest eigenvalue to the largest eigenvalue of the Laplacian of the communication graph. We also give a performance index to characterize the total communication energy to achieve average consensus and show that the minimization of the communication energy leads to a tradeoff between the convergence rate and the number of quantization levels.
Classification-based pedestrian detection systems (PDSs) are currently a hot research topic in the field of intelligent transportation. A PDS detects pedestrians in real time on moving vehicles. A practical PDS demands not only high detection accuracy but also high detection speed. However, most of the existing classification-based approaches mainly seek for high detection accuracy, while the detection speed is not purposely optimized for practical application. At the same time, the performance, particularly the speed, is primarily tuned based on experiments without theoretical foundations, leading to a long training procedure. This paper starts with measuring and optimizing detection speed, and then a practical classification-based pedestrian detection solution with high detection speed and training speed is described. First, an extended classification/detection speed metric, named feature-per-object (fpo), is proposed to measure the detection speed independently from execution. Then, an fpo minimization model with accuracy constraints is formulated based on a tree classifier ensemble, where the minimum fpo can guarantee the highest detection speed. Finally, the minimization problem is solved efficiently by using nonlinear fitting based on radial basis function neural networks. In addition, the optimal solution is directly used to instruct classifier training; thus, the training speed could be accelerated greatly. Therefore, a rapid and accurate classification-based detection technique is proposed for the PDS. Experimental results on urban traffic videos show that the proposed method has a high detection speed with an acceptable detection rate and a false-alarm rate for onboard detection; moreover, the training procedure is also very fast.
The scientific community relies upon the veracity of the scientific data in handbooks and databases. In a previous work, the authors developed a systematic, intelligent, and potentially automatic method to detect errors in such resources based on artificial neural networks (ANNs). This method revealed variations from (10 to 900) % in tables of property data for elements in the periodic table and pointed out the ones that are most probably correct. In this paper, we focus on the details of employing this method for analyzing the data of boiling points and enthalpies of vaporization recorded in different handbooks. The method points out the values that are likely to be correct. To verify the method employed, a detailed discussion of the data with reference to the original literature sources is given as well as factors that may affect the accuracy of the prediction.
To solve the velocity and acceleration of legs with different structures is a fundamental and challenging issue for dynamics analysis of parallel manipulators (PMs). In this paper, the kinematics of linear legs with different structures for limited-degree of freedom (DOF) PMs is studied. First, based on kinematics/statics of general limited-DOF PM, the formulas are derived for solving the angular velocity/acceleration of some linear legs with different structures. Second, the velocity and acceleration of the piston/cylinder in the legs are represented by velocity and acceleration of platform in PM. Finally, the solving procedures are illustrated by applying this approach to a 4DOF PM. [DOI: 10.1115/1.4002694]
FS-BP model was used to try to predict precipitation. The last six years' precipitation were selected as input variable and the next year's precipitation as output variable. The results show that the mean relative error of the prediction is 2.92%. T-test and regression analysis indicates that the predicted value differs just slightly from the observed value and their correlation coefficient was 0.9901. The FS-BP model is quite higher than BP model in accuracy and stability, and serves as useful tool in further research on prediction of precipitation.
Recently much attention has been directed to extending logic programming with description logic (DL) expressions, so that logic programs have access to DL knowledge bases and thus are able to reason with ontologies in the Semantic Web. In this paper, we propose a new extension of logic programs with DL expressions, called normal DL logic programs. In a normal DL logic program arbitrary DL expressions are allowed to appear in rule bodies and atomic DL expressions (i.e., atomic concepts and atomic roles) allowed in rule heads. We extend the key condition of well-supportedness for normal logic programs under the standard answer set semantics to normal DL logic programs and define an answer set semantics for DL logic programs which satisfies the extended well-supportedness condition. We show that the answer set semantics for normal DL logic programs is decidable if the underlying description logic is decidable (e.g. SHOIN or SROIQ).
Plenty of motion planning methods have been proposed and achieved good performance in static environments. However, motion planning for obstacle avoidance in dynamic and changeable environment is still a challenging task, especially when the tracked object moves freely. This paper presents a practical fuzzy logic based motion planning method for the mobile intelligent security robot with limited sensory information. Vision sensor is used for object tracking, and sonar sensors are used for obstacle avoidance. Fuzzy logic together with three modules: the environment construction module, the reactive planning module, and the action control module are used for obstacle avoidance and navigation. Experimental results show the efficiency and the reliability of this method in the dynamic and uncontrolled environments.
This paper proposes a reinforcement learning based tag recommendation algorithm to deal with the data sparseness that affects the performance stability of collaborative filtering algorithms. Our algorithm integrates user tags into traditional collaborative filtering algorithms and attaching importance to user interest shift in the process of user interest learning process. Empirical Cases of comparing with traditional collaborative filtering algorithms indicate that our recommend algorithm exhibits better performance competition.
This paper studied the price prediction in sock market based on general regression neural networks (GRNN), and paid more attention to analyzing the time interval effect on the prediction model. Simulations and comparisons were made on actual data and pointed out the relationship between the time interval and the prediction error is not monotonic rise or monotonic decline. Finally, some guidelines for further development were outlined.
This paper proposes a dynamic spectrum access (DSA) strategy in cognitive radio (CR) network. This strategy combines fuzzy inference and reinforcement learning theory to build knowledge on network status from the current state and past experience. Multiple assessment variables on environment performance and preference information are introduced to regulate decision-making behavior. The proposed aims at making optimal spectrum access action and obtaining long-term rewards on desired network-wide objectives. We adopt distribute DSA architecture in which cognitive radio network access points (AP) executive control strategy and provide CR network access for unlicensed users. Numerical results show that our algorithm can dramatically promote efficient use of spectrum resource compared to other spectrum access methods, and gain good rewards on the desirable objectives.
The paper refers to the mathematical model of gasoline engine, and builds liquid-jet LPG(Liquefied Petroleum Gas) engine model. Based on the model, when the specific of the parameters distribution of operating engine are known, RBF neural network can estimate center value and the number of hidden layers precisely, and control engine A/F in fine range. But the parameter features of operating engine are unknown in advance. The paper provides a improved subtractive clustering - RBF neural Networks algorithm to control A/F of LPG engine. Simulation shows, improved subtractive clustering can precisely determine the number of neuron of RBF neural network hidden layers under unknown operation parameters, and the precision is higher, and self-study and adaptive adjusting is better than before.
To realize the trajectory tracking control for six degrees of freedom parallel robot, a fuzzy sliding mode control strategy based on support vector machines is presented. Sliding mode control algorithm has complete adaptability to system disturbance and siring in sliding mode, which is used to automatically track the uncertainty of system parameters and external disturbance. Fuzzy algorithm is applied to improve the sliding mode control performance. Fuzzy support vector machines have strong treatment of non-linear signal and generalization ability, which is used to reduce the chattering in sliding mode control. The parameters of fuzzy support machines controller are optimized by hybrid learning algorithm, which combines least square algorithm with improved genetic algorithm, to get the optimal control performance for the object. The simulation results demonstrated that the control strategy designed gets tracking effect with high precision and speed, as well as reduces chattering of control under the condition of model error and external disturbance.
For overcoming with the current MAV's poor flexibility, stability; lower lift, payload; coupling with the movements and motion changes when vertical taking off, landing and hovering, proposed the new Hexrotor Micro Aircraft Vehicle (MAV). This paper provides the dynamic modeling of six degrees of freedom (6 DOF) of the Hexrotor MAV. The derived model composed of translational and rotational subsystems is dynamically unstable; designing a neuro-fuzzy controller which is based on the fuzzy membership function based neural networks (FMFBNN) for autonomous Hexrotor MAV. The FMTBNN controller combines the advantages of fuzzy logics and neural networks, such as inference capability and adoption of human operators' experience with fuzzy logics, and universal approximation and learning capability with neural networks, unlike other conventional control approaches; the present FMFBNN controller does not require off-line learning procedures, or human intervention to adjust parameters. On-line learning of the FMFBNN controller is achieved by using an inner-loop learning scheme. The simulated test flights indicate the capability of the FMFBNN controller in achieving the desired performance.
Artificial neural network (ANN) and evolutionary algorithm (EA) are both biology-based models of information processing. The basic theories of ANN and EA are described. Then the mechanisms of using EA for ANN's optimization are explained and the research states are summarized. The existing problems and future directions are demonstrated finally.
Unmanned surface vehicle (USV) system has been one of main research directions in mobile robotics because it can be used in many situations. However, high performance path following control, especially straight line tracking control, has been one of the difficult problems in autonomous control of USV system. In this paper, we propose a new straight line path following control algorithm by combining yaw angle feedback and back-stepping technique and show its closed loop stability. The most absorbing advantage of the proposed controller is that it not only reserve the good performance of back-stepping controller but also bring much faster convergent rate, which is very important in real applications. The simulation results with respect to a training ship model have shown the feasibility and validity of the proposed method.
In this paper, a new iterative ADP algorithm is proposed to solve the finite horizon optimal tracking control problem for a class of discrete-time nonlinear systems. The idea is that using system transformation, the optimal tracking problem is transformed into optimal regulation problem, and then the iterative ADP algorithm is introduced to deal with the regulation problem with convergence guarantee. Three neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function, compute the optimal control policy and model the unknown system dynamics, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of iterative ADP algorithm. An example is given to demonstrate the validity of the proposed optimal tracking control scheme.
Using the neural-network-based iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm, an optimal control scheme for a class of unknown discrete-time nonlinear systems with discount factor in the cost function is proposed in this paper. The optimal controller is designed with convergence analysis in terms of cost function and control law. In order to implement the algorithm via globalized dual heuristic programming (CDHP) technique, a neural network is constructed first to identify the unknown nonlinear system, and then two other neural networks are used to approximate the cost function and the control law, respectively. An example is provided to verify the effectiveness of the present approach.
With the advantage of simulating the details of a transportation system, the "microsimulation" of a traffic system has long been a hot topic in the Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) research. The Cellular Automata (CA) and the Multi-Agent System (MAS) modeling are two typical methods for the traffic microsimulation. However, the computing burden for the microsimulation and the optimization based on it is usually very heavy. In recent years the Graphics Processing Units (GPUs) have been applied successfully in many areas for parallel computing. Compared with the traditional CPU cluster, GPU has an obvious advantage of low cost of hardware and electricity consumption. In this paper we build an MAS model for a road network of four signalized intersections and we use a Genetic Algorithm (GA) to optimize the traffic signal timing with the objective of maximizing the number of the vehicles leaving the network in a given period of time. Both the simulation and the optimization are accelerated by GPU and a speedup by a factor of 195 is obtained. In the future we will extend the work to large scale road networks.
Traffic congestion leads to problems like delays, decreasing flow rate, and higher fuel consumption. Consequently, keeping traffic moving as efficiently as possible is not only important to economy but also important to environment. Traffic system is a large complex nonlinear stochastic system. Traditional mathematical methods have some limitations when they are applied in traffic control. Thus, computational intelligence (CI) technologies gain more and more attentions. Neural Networks (NNs) is a well developed CI technology with lots of promising applications in traffic signal control (TSC). In this paper, a neural network (NN) based signal controller is designed to control the traffic lights in an urban traffic road network. Scenarios of simulation are conducted under a microscopic traffic simulation software. Several criterions are collected. Results demonstrate that through online reinforcement training the controllers obtain better control effects than the widely used pre-time and actuated methods under various traffic conditions.
A multi-agent system (MAS) is such a system which composed of many autonomous agents with mutual interactions among them. Over the past few years, formation control of MAS has obtained intensive focus due to its widely application in robotics, astronautics, and aeronautics etc.. However, many existing works on formation control of MAS concentrate on the dynamics of an MAS only, there is few works concerns about the geometric configuration of an MAS. In this contribution, by combining some techniques of computational geometry and control theory, a novel control strategy is proposed to preserve the convexity of the configuration of an MAS. Moreover, simulation results validate the effectiveness of the proposed control method.
Climbing capability, as an important index to assess the performance of the power transmission line (PTL) inspection robot, directly concerns the robot practical application. In the former design, in order to enhance the climbing capability, the common method is to choose a drive motor with high torque and a transmission system with large reduction ratio. However, as a matter of fact, climbing capability of the inspection robots using the method mentioned above does not become very satisfied. This article analyzes the influence of posture and drive wheel on the climbing capacity, proposes a new method to improve climbing capability by changing the robot posture during climbing and optimum design for drive wheels, which could enhance the adhesion capability and balance the load, and finally validates the correctness of the proposed method by simulation and experiments. The research contents are also meaningful to some other mobile robots.
An adaptive controller for a class of multiple-input-multiple-output (MIMO) uncertain nonlinear systems with extern disturbance and control input limitations is presented in this paper. The controller is designed with a priori consideration of input limitation effects, hence it can generate control signals satisfying input limitations. This controller uses adaptive radial basis function (RBF) neural networks to approximate the unknown nonlinearities. To compensate the effects of input limitations, an auxiliary system is constructed and used in neural network parameter update laws. Furthermore, in order to deal with approximation errors for unknown nonlinearities and extern disturbances, a supervisory control is designed, which guarantees that the closed loop system achieves a desired level H-infinity tracking performance. The closed loop system performance is analyzed by Lyapunov method. Steady state and transient tracking performance index are established and can be adjusted by design parameters. Computer simulations are presented to illustrate the efficiency and tracking performance of the proposed controller.
In this paper, we investigate an optimal consensus problem for multi-agent systems with directed interconnection topologies. Based on a nonlinear distributed coordination rule with switching directed communicating graphs, the considered multi-agent system achieves not only a consensus, but also an optimal one by agreeing within the global solution set of a sum of objective functions corresponding to multiple agents. The optimal solution set convergence and consensus analysis are given respectively with the help of convex analysis and nonsmooth analysis.
The average vegetation height can be accurately extracted from ICESat GLAS data, however, a certain spatial interval exist in laser strips and dots reduces the mapping accuracy of average canopy height after the interpolation of the GLAS data. The MODIS-BRDF/albedo data consist of canopy structural data, such as LAI, canopy height etc. So the combination of ICESat GLAS and MODIS data can be obtained more accurate distribution of average canopy height and achieve the distribution of continuous canopy height. In this paper, the GLAS / MODIS data were collected in forest-rich three provinces in northeastern China. We firstly filtered GLAS waveform data and get the average vegetation height, and then selected the optional MODIS-BRDF / albedo bands to retrieve the average vegetation height. An artificial neural networks model was esTablelished by training the MODIS BRDF data, and finally obtained the average vegetation height over the whole three provinces. The fusion method between GLAS data and optical remote sensing image was proposed to make up for their shortages and obtained a continuous distribution of average vegetation height. It increases the analysis dimensions of forest ecosystem and produces more accurate data for forest biomass and carbon storage estimates.
Image matching is a fundamental aspect of many problems in computer vision applications. Many of these applications have real-time constraints. Recently there has been much interest in object and view matching using local invariant features and descriptor. Center surround extrema (CenSurE) features have aroused wide interest because of the high compute efficiency. Due to its linear scales, the filter response signal is very sparse, can't acquire high repeatability. So, we modified the center-surround detectors (CenSurE) using logarithmic scale sampling, and to detect the features of image interpolation, obtained the subpixel level of accuracy. The results of image matching experiments and theory analyzing demonstrate that improved center-surround detectors are more stable and repeatable than CenSurE. At the same time, we proposed a new rapid descriptor based on gradient of the summed image patch, called GSIP. The results of image region matching experiments demonstrate that the GSIP descriptor has better distinctiveness than the state-of-the-art SURF descriptor, and achieves a 2 fold speed increase. The local feature and descriptor present here can be used widely in real-time view matching fields, including motion tracking, solving for 3D structure from multiple images, and robots visual navigation.
To improve the control precision of robotic manipulator, fuzzy support vector machines control method for robotic manipulator was presented based on genetic algorithm and least square algorithm. Fuzzy algorithm was used to decouple joints. Using support vector machines, fuzzy logical control of complete process and treatment of non-linear signal were realized. The parameters of controller were optimized by hybrid learning algorithm. First, least square algorithm was used for off-line optimization to form support vector machines control system. Then, genetic algorithm was used for on-line optimization to get the optimal performance parameters of support vector machines and the optimal fuzzy proportional parameters. Simulation results of a two-link manipulator demonstrated that the control method designed gets tracking effect with high precision.
A similar-parameters interpolation method and an empirical orthogonal function analysis are used to construct empirical models for the ionospheric foF2 by using the observational data from three ground-based ionosonde stations in Japan which are Wakkanai (Geographic 45.4 degrees N, 141.7 degrees E), Kokubunji (Geographic 35.7 degrees N, 140.1 degrees E) and Yamagawa (Geographic 31.2 degrees N, 130.6 degrees E) during the years of 1971-1987. The impact of different drivers towards ionospheric foF2 can be well indicated by choosing appropriate proxies. It is shown that the missing data of original foF2 can be optimal refilled using similar-parameters method. The characteristics of base functions and associated coefficients of EOF model are analyzed. The diurnal variation of base functions can reflect the essential nature of ionospheric foF2 while the coefficients represent the long-term alteration tendency. The 1st order EOF coefficient A(1) can reflect the feature of the components with solar cycle variation. A(1) also contains an evident semi-annual variation component as well as a relatively weak annual fluctuation component. Both of which are not so obvious as the solar cycle variation. The 2nd order coefficient A(2) contains mainly annual variation components. The 3rd order coefficient A(3) and 4th order coefficient A(4) contain both annual and semi-annual variation components. The seasonal variation, solar rotation oscillation and the small-scale irregularities are also included in the 4th order coefficient A(4). The amplitude range and developing tendency of all these coefficients depend on the level of solar activity and geomagnetic activity. The reliability and validity of EOF model are verified by comparison with observational data and with International Reference Ionosphere (IRI). The agreement between observations and EOF model is quite well, indicating that the EOF model can reflect the major changes and the temporal distribution characteristics of the mid-latitude ionosphere of the Sea of Japan region. The error analysis processes imply that there are seasonal anomaly and semi-annual asymmetry phenomena which are consistent with pre-existing ionosphere theory.
Integrating Geospatial Web Services into the enterprise business system seamlessly has become one of the major tasks in the enterprise information construction projects. The authors design a services integration system based on Bayesian Network and Service Intelligent Agents which provides an effective way for the enterprise to integrate Geospatial Web Services into the existing business system seamlessly. In this system, the authors build a Quality of Service reasoning model based on Bayesian network and propose a method of services executing result monitoring and feedback based on Service Intelligent Agents, which can effectively improve the efficiency and the success rate of services discovery and composition. The feedback information of services chain's executing will be send to a QoS database, which can help to correct and update the QoS information.
The characteristic of the drift error of inertial platform is a high-order nonlinear dynamic system, using the neural networks' abilities of universal approximation of differentiable trajectory and capturing system dynamic information, this paper presents the drift error identifying project of inertial platform based on Elman networks structure. First, the drift error model of inertial platform is established, after selecting the input and output for network, momentum and alterable speed algorithm is used to speed up the network convergence. On the basis of the algorithm, the extended nonlinear node function in the hidden network does not only improve the learning speed of network, but also satisfies the need of accuracy on system identification. Through the drift error data measured on inertial platform, the training result shows that the scheme achieves satisfied identification results.
In this paper we present an algorithm for the application of simultaneous localization and mapping in complex environments. Instead of building a grid map or building a feature map with a small number of the obstacles' geometric parameters, the proposed algorithm builds a sampled environment map (SEM) to represent a complex environment with a set of environment samples. To overcome the lack of one-to-one correspondence between environment samples and raw observations, the signed orthogonal distance function is proposed to be used as the observation model. A method considering geometric constraints is presented to remove redundant environment samples from the SEM. We also present a method to improve the SEM's topological consistency by using corner constraints. The proposed algorithm has been verified in a simulation and an indoor experiment. The results show that the algorithm can localize the robot and build a complex map effectively. (C) Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden and The Robotics Society of Japan, 2011
Purpose - Object tracking has been a challenging problem of robot vision over the decades, which plays a key role in a wide spectrum of visual tracking-related applications such as surveillance, visual servoing, sensing and navigation in robotics, video compression. The purpose of this paper is to present a novel intensity, orientation codes and geometry (IOCG) histogram variant of the mean-shift algorithm for object tracking.
This paper deals with the finite-horizon optimal tracking control for a class of discrete-time nonlinear systems using the iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm. First, the optimal tracking problem is converted into designing a finite-horizon optimal regulator for the tracking error dynamics. Then, with convergence analysis in terms of cost function and control law, the iterative ADP algorithm via heuristic dynamic programming (HDP) technique is introduced to obtain the finite-horizon optimal tracking controller which makes the cost function close to its optimal value within an c-error bound. Moreover, three neural networks are used to implement the algorithm, which aims at approximating the cost function, the control law, and the error dynamics, respectively. At last, an example is included to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
In this paper, a class of continuous-time nonlinear multi-person zero-sum differential game problems is solved using an iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) method. The idea is to use ADP technique to obtain the optimal control pair iteratively which makes the performance index function reach the saddle point of the zero-sum differential games, which does not require to check the existence of saddle point in advance. It can be proved that the optimal control pair can make the performance index function reach the optimum. Stability analysis of the nonlinear systems is presented and the convergence property of the performance index function is also proved. A simulation example is given to illustrate the performance of the present method.
In this paper, we use PID motion controllers to control underactuated Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) to follow three-dimensional paths. Based on the path-following errors expressed in the Serret-Frenet coordinate frame, we study how to design the 3D path-following guidance functions, including an enhanced guidance function, which is based on single-input fuzzy logic controller in analytical form. We implement the proposed guidance functions on a six degree-of-freedom non-linear dynamic model of an underactuated AUV and present the simulation results on 3D path-following performance.
Inspired by the characteristics of high maneuverability and agility of live dolphins, a novel robotic dolphin based on both morphology and locomotion bio-mimicry is developed. The robotic dolphin consists of four main components involving a streamlined head, a turning unit, a dorsoventral undulatory structure, and a tail fluke. The streamlined body in conjunction with a vivid dorsal fin, pectoral fins, and a caudal fin serves for morphology mimicry. Meanwhile, vertical fluke oscillations is designed for dolphin-like movements and a pair of 3-DOF (degree of freedom) flippers for up-and-down motions and braking. In particular, a set of separate turning unit is adopted to fulfil lateral turns. As a new research direction of bio-inspired robots, the dolphin robots with high efficiency, high maneuverability, and low noise will server as a mobile platform for underwater reconnaissance and environmental monitoring.
In this paper, we investigate distributed control of the multi-agent systems with a major agent and a large number of minor agents in Markovian environment, where agents are coupled by the quadratic tracking indices with random parameters. The major agent has salient impact on others. Each minor agent merely has tiny influence, while the average effect of all the minor agents is not negligible, which plays a significant role in the evolution and performance index of each agent. Besides the state of the major agent, each minor agent can only access to the information of its state and parameters. Based on the mean field theory, a set of distributed control laws is designed. By the probability limit theory, the uniform stability of the closed-loop systems and the upper bound of the corresponding index values are obtained.
In this paper, we consider workload partition problems in order to dynamically cover an uncertain region by multiple mobile agents. Distributed algorithm for mobile agents is designed to yield equal workload in each subregion by partitioning the entire region. Due to the uncertainty in the region, the agents do not have the total environment information. Instead, they have to update their trajectories in real time when they move forward in order to guarantee accurate workload partition and minimize the time to complete the dynamic coverage. With the help of input-to-state stability, we give the partitioning error estimation for the given algorithm. Then simulation results verify the feasibility of the distributed algorithm.
This paper considers a target tracking problem, and the dynamics of the target regarded as an active leader is given in a general form of linear system. The multi-agent network contains communication delays and experiences switching interconnection. A distributed estimator is designed for each agent to obtain the unmeasurable state variables of the dynamic leader, and then a distributed feedback control law is developed to achieve the tracking. With constructing a common Lyapunov function, a sufficient condition is given to guarantee that each agent can track the active leader. Moreover, the input-to-state stability (ISS) is obtained for time-delay system in a disturbed environment.
This paper investigates the continuous-time distributed parameter estimation problem of sensor networks in uncertain sensing and communication environments. Each sensor uses a linear time-varying stochastic measurement model, and can only receive its neighbors' estimation states corrupted by stochastic noises. The random switches between different communication topologies are described by Markov processes. We propose a continuous-time distributed estimation algorithm suitable for this kind of unreliable sensing and communication network. Under mild conditions on stochastic noises, gain function and topology-switching Markov chain, both the mean square and almost sure convergence of the designed algorithms are established by use of algebraic graph theory, stochastic differential equation theory, and Markov chain theory. The effect of sensor-dependent gain functions on the convergence of the algorithm is also analyzed.
Cooperation possesses a very significant role on the development of human being societies and animal colonies. Understanding the emergence of cooperation is a central topic in the study of multi-agent systems. The Prisoner's Dilemma proposes a question to us, how the emergence of cooperation occurs in the population of selfish agents without centralized control. Previous work mainly focus on the design of dynamics in the specific system, or say the playing rule in game theory. However at some circumstances, it is impossible for the original system to run according to the new rule. This paper incorporates the idea of intervention into the evolution of cooperation at the premise of not changing the playing rule in the original system. With the introduction of a small proportion of special agents, the level of cooperation is increased significantly. In the meantime, this mechanism is robust to the plausible noise existing in the evolution.
Over the last few years, the second order multi-agent systems (MAS) have been intensively investigated. It is well known that most of known results on the consensus of second order MAS depend on an important assumption that all system matrices have a common left eigenvector. This is because that a common quadratic Lyapunov function can be constructed based on the above assumption. To overcome the nonexistence of a common left eigenvector, a convex analysis approach is introduced in this paper. In particular, several consensus criteria are obtained under the condition of nonexistence of a common left eigenvector. It indicates some potential engineering applications in the near future.
In this paper, we investigate the controllability of leader-follower multi-agent systems, where the interconnection is directed and weighted. First, we give algebraic criteria to check controllability. Then we employ balanced partition to classify the interconnection graphs, and study the controllable subspaces with given nontrivial balanced partition. Moreover, we also reveal the equivalence of flow invariance and existence of balanced partition and give a necessary and sufficient graph condition of structural controllability. In addition, some illustrative examples are given.
In this paper, we consider distributed coordination of discrete-time second-order multi-agent systems with limited communication data-rate. The position of each agent is measurable, while the velocity is not. A quantized-observer based encoding-decoding scheme is proposed, which integrates the state observation with channel coding/decoding. A distributed coordinated control law is proposed based on the states and outputs of the encoders and decoders. By converting the closed-loop nonlinear system into a linear system with disturbance, sufficient conditions on the control gains and network topology for the existence of finite-level quantizers to ensure the closed-loop convergence are given, and it is shown that these conditions are also necessary in some sense. It is proved that, by selecting the number of quantization levels (data-rate) properly, the asymptotic synchronization of the positions and velocities can be achieved.
The paper illustrates some marine survey AUVs plus their features and typical configurations, and analyzes their key technologies through classification and analysis, which are currently existed or under development. Their composition can be divided into basic modules and functional modules. Basic modules include central processing system, propeller system, power supply system and navigation system etc. Meanwhile, functional modules refer to auxiliary sensor and survey equipment. As for AUV applied in marine survey, designer should pay more consideration to the running state in high velocity flow and strengthen the control of side thrust. The configurations of marine survey AUVs from companies like Kongsberg in Norway, Hydroid in U.S., Bluefin Robotics in U.S. and Hafmynd in Iceland are analyzed and classified. The research and development process of domestic AUV are also be reviewed. As AUV can collect data with highly efficiency and better quality, it will replace traditional means of surface vessels with towed systems for its portability. Easy use of AUV can significantly reduce fuel consumption of ships, which will be widely used in marine survey in the future as a cost-effective method. (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier Ltd. Selection and/or peer-review under responsibility of Conference ESIAT2011 Organization Committee.
A kind of intelligent wireless sensor networks (IWSN) is set up from the point of view of multi-agent systems. IWSN is composed of some sensor node agents, some cluster head agents, a base agent and a command agent. According to the characteristics of these agents, intelligent wireless sensor networks model (IWSNM) based on Petri nets is proposed, which can accurately and unambiguously model the overall and individual characteristics of the networks. Moreover, IWSNM can be analyzed, verified and validated by the supporting tools of Petri nets. Consequently, the defects in early design stage can be detected, and the security and reliability can be improved. Finally, IWSNM are employed to develop the target tracking systems.
With the increasing complexity of modern power system, the conventional analytical methods and simulation systems, which are based on reductionism, can't provide sufficient guidance for its operation and management anymore. ACP theory which is based on holism and complex system theory, mainly consists of artificial systems (A), computing experiments (C) and parallel execution (P), has its specific advantages in the research on power grid. In this article, ACP method is introduced to build up artificial power system by using multi-agent complex network models. With the help of the artificial power system, actual power system's control, scheduling, optimization and management can be improved further by providing theoretical guidance and technical support for the rolling optimizations in normal situations, and emergency management in abnormal situations. As an application case study, the artificial power system constructed with actual data from north China power grid is applied for computing experiment's analysis under different attacks. The same way, the artificial power system can also provide theoretical guidance and practical support for smart grid research.
In the paper, we aim to design a controller for the four-rope-driven level-adjustment robot to adjust eccentric payload to level and keep the rope tension balanced. As the robot's actuators can only move in a certain range, it is necessary for the controller to judge whether the actuators' movement becomes constrained or not. Further, different control strategy should be taken to handle different situations. The controller is composed of two control modules, each of which regulates one diagonal of the payload's upper surface. Each control module consists of nine fuzzy sub-controllers, and each sub-controller deals with a particular situation. By selecting appropriate sub-controllers automatically, each control module can deal with different situations. Experiment results show that the controller is effective and practical.
A dynamic motion planning approach for an autonomous vehicle navigated without GPS and unmanned driven in unknown environments is presented. The unknown environments bring several technology challenges, including high-speed operation, complex interaction with environment, parking in unstructured lots, and passing dynamic obstacles. In this approach, we combine the global path planning and the local path planning with a hierarchical structure. The exploration method to navigate in unknown environments is described in detail. An autonomous vehicle, Intelligent Pioneer, was developed to verify the dynamic motion planning approach. The Intelligent Pioneer showed good performances in dynamic motion planning and won the first prize of the 2010 Future Challenge of Intelligent Vehicles in China.
The detection of features from Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) data is a fundamental component of feature-based mapping and SLAM systems. Classical approaches are often tied to specific environments, computationally expensive, or do not extract precise features.
Electromyography (EMG) has been widely used as control commands for prosthesis, powered exoskeletons and rehabilitative robots. In this paper, an EMG-driven state space model is developed to estimate continuous joint angular displacement and velocity, demonstrated by elbow flexion/extension. The model combines the Hill-based muscle model with the forward dynamics of joint movement, in which kinematic variables are expressed as a function of neural activation levels. EMG features including integral of absolute value and waveform length are then extracted, and two quadratic equations which associate the kinematic variables with EMG features are constructed to represent the measurement equation. The proposed model are verified by extensively experiments, where the angular movements of human elbow joint are estimated only using the EMG signals, and the estimations are compared with the IMU measurements to validate the accuracy. As a demonstration, a robotic arm is commanded to follow the human elbow movement estimated by the proposed model, which shows the possibility of EMG-based robotic assisted rehabilitation.
Multi-agent systems are ubiquitous in the world. Recently, multi-agent systems have received increasing attention from mathematics, physics, engineering sciences, and social science communities. This paper firstly introduces several fundamental concepts and then reviews several representative models of multi-agent systems, including the Boids model, Vicsek model, Couzin-Levin model and its invariants, and various complex dynamical networks. Based on these models, it further investigates the dynamical behaviors of multi-agent systems, such as consensus, convergence, adaptation, and consensus decision-making. Moreover, it briefly reviews the main progress in the control of multi-agent systems. Finally, it looks ahead into some important research topics on multi-agent systems, with regard to modelling, analysis, and control.
Making biomimetic robots move like natural animals is an interesting problem, because this topic involves not only the low level algorithm that controls the movement of robots' bodies and limbs but also the high level control strategy that deals with different kinds of situations. Based on a certain biological assumption, a self-tuning multi-phase CPG for snake robots is proposed. This method imitates the control strategy of natural snake's movement in different environments, which enables the snake robot to move more quickly and naturally. Through kinematic and dynamic analysis of snake robots, optimal control parameters are chosen for the decision strategy. Due to the intrinsic property of the multi-phase CPG, this model can change the movement patterns and control parameters autonomously according to external information. As a result, such neural control provides a powerful but simple way to self-tune adaptable behaviors in snake robots.
In order to verify the performance of the designed temperature controller of the plastic extruder using supercritical CO2, we developed a Hardware-In-the-Loop (HIL) simulation system. The specified HIL simulation system was founded upon the NI products, while the temperature controller and its accessorial parts were constructed in Matlab/Simulink environment. Labview and Simulink were combined together with NI Simulation Interface Toolkit (SIT), and a friendly Human Machine Interface (HMI) was developed and implemented in the host computer by using TCP/IP protocol for data communication. The result showed that the designed temperature control algorithm had better effect when used in the plastic extruder production field. This HIL simulation system can shorten the development cycle and cost, improve the design level of the control system, and provide a solution to the demonstration of the controller in the real-time mode. Meanwhile, the HMI solved the problem of real-time monitoring in the process of the HIL simulation. What's more, this simulation system can be applied in other process control fields as flow, pressure, etc.
A chip microcomputer controlled electro-optical tracking control system was introduced. Ant colony algorithm and fuzzy PID control algorithm were combined. Ant colony algorithm with global optimization ability was utilized to optimize the three parameters of PID controller. It effectively and quickly overcomes the contradiction between the convergence speed and the steady-state characteristics. Practice shows that this system possesses good dynamic performance and steady-state control accuracy, and high robust. (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier Ltd. Selection and/or peer-review under responsibility of the Organizers of 2011 International Conference on Energy and Environmental Science.
Time domain features of slow potentials (<= 2 Hz) during periodic movement and motor imagery at fast and slow (4 Hz and 2 Hz) were investigated in 4 healthy subjects by event-related potentials in the paper. EEG was recorded from 64 electrodes and 9 closely spaced electrodes overlaying the left and right sensorimotor area were analyzed. The subjects performed 40 fast and 40 slow (paced by metronome) movement and motor imagery of six tasks that involved three limbs (left and right index fingers and right toes) at first-person perspective. In addition, the subjects also performed motor imagery involved left and right arms and feet at third-person perspective. Based on brain processing mainly involved with the slow potentials during periodic movement and motor imagery, event-related potentials were low-pass filtered with 2 Hz cut-off frequency (24dB/oct). At C1, Cz, and C2, fast movement-related potentials had a larger positive slow potentials tendency than slow movement-related potentials 1.5 s after movement onset. In contrast to movement, slow motor imagery-related potentials had a larger positive slow potentials tendency than fast motor imagery-related potentials 1.75 s after motor imagery onset at these electrodes. Time delays reaching positive peak and rebound rate after peak were also explored. These results may be very important for further exploring relationship between speed and EEG activity during periodic movement and motor imagery. The study may provide a strategy to realize fine control of robots by brain-controlled robot interface. (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier Ltd. Selection and/or peer-review under responsibility of the Asia-Pacific Chemical, Biological & Environmental Engineering Society (APCBEES)
This paper presents a communication method for a service robot for the elderly. Based on the analysis of functions and configuration, we design a systemic modularized control structure with CAN fieldbus used to connect distributed hardware and software modules. The design of the CAN interface among the hardware as well as communication protocol of the CAN fieldbus are described. Finally, an evaluation of the performance of the robotic system is provided. The experiment proves that the robotic system perform communication tasks with superiority in stability, reliability and efficiency based on use of CAN fieldbus.
This paper attempts to investigate the impacts of precipitation and temperature on surface runoff in poorly gauged alpine basins originating from alpine Tianshan Mountains. The three-layered feed forward artificial neural networks (ANNs) with a back-propagation algorithm have been proposed to model runoff generation trained using four structures of (5, n, 1)1, (5, n, 1)2, (6, n, 1) and (8, n, 1). The results indicate that ANN models trained using the four structures performed equally well in both Kaidu and Manas River Basins.
In this paper, a new simple hardware-oriented spiking neuron model is proposed. It is mainly based on one of intrinsic features of single-electron transistor (SET)-Coulomb Oscillation. In fact, Coulomb Oscillation can be considered as current pulses under the gate's voltage, which is similar with the pulses of spiking neurons. Accordingly, the circuit structure of spiking neuron model has been designed. By simulation on the PSPICE, the proposed new model can show different spiking types according to the different input signals and implement information encoding. The model can exhibit the property of synchronization. Unlike traditional neuron model, the proposed new model has the capacity of integrating both spatial and temporal signals. In addition the phase encoding is also involved. So the experiments' results demonstrate that the model is an implement way of hardware-oriented spiking neuron models or even spiking neural networks (SNN). (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier B. V. Selection and/or peer-review under responsibility of Garry Lee.
In this paper, a neural-network-based optimal control scheme for a class of nonlinear discrete-time systems with control constraints is proposed. The iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm via globalized dual heuristic programming (GDHP) technique is developed to design the optimal controller with convergence proof. Three neural networks are used to facilitate the implementation of the iterative algorithm, which will approximate at each iteration the cost function, the optimal control law, and the controlled nonlinear discrete-time system, respectively. A simulation study is carried out to demonstrate the effectiveness of the present approach in dealing with the nonlinear constrained optimal control problem.
Ongoing efforts within neuroscience and intelligent system have been directed toward the building of artificial computational models using simulated neuron units as basic building blocks. Such efforts, inspired in the standard design of traditional neural networks, are limited by the difficulties arising from single functional performance and computational inconvenience, especially when modeling large scale, complex and dynamic processes such as cognitive recognition. Here, we show that there is a different form of implementing cortex-like mechanism, the motivation comes directly from recent pioneering works on detailed functional decomposition analysis of the visual cortex and developments on spiking neural networks (SNNs), a promising direction for neural networks, as they utilize information representation as trains of spikes, embedded with spatiotemporal characteristics. A practical implementation is presented, which can be simply described as cortical-like feed-forward hierarchy using biologically plausible neural system. As a proof of principle, a prototype model has been testified on the platform of several facial expression dataset. Of note, small structure modifications and different learning schemes allow for implementing more complicated decision system, showing great potential for discovering implicit pattern of interest and further analysis. Our results support the approach of using such hierarchical consortia as an efficient way of complex pattern analysis task not easily solvable using traditional, single functional way of implementations.
In order to verify the performance of the designed temperature controller of the plastic extruder using supercritical CO2, we developed a Hardware-In-the-Loop (Hit) simulation system based on Matlab/Simulink RTW. In this platform, data transmission between real process and Mat lab workshop was carried out by the data acquisition cards supported by xPC Target, so that the physical system was integrated to the simulation loop, and the system modeling, analysis, digital simulation and target downloading were all realized. The result showed that the designed temperature control algorithm had better effect when used in the plastic exturder production field. This HIL simulation system can shorten the development cycle and cost, improve the design level of the control system, and provide a solution to the demonstration of the controller in the real-time mode. What's more, this simulation system can be applied in other process control fields as flow, pressure, etc.
Receding horizon control has been shown as a good method in multiple robot formation control problem. However, there are still two disadvantages in almost all receding horizon formation control (RHFC) algorithms. One of them is the huge computational burden due to the complicated nonlinear dynamical optimization, and the other is that most RHFC algorithms use the absolute states directly while relative states between two robots are more accurate and easier to be measured in many applications. Thus, in this paper, a new relative state modeling based distributed RHFC algorithm is designed to solve the two problems referred to above. Firstly, a simple strategy to modeling the dynamical process of the relative states is given; Subsequently, the distributed RHFC algorithm is introduced and the convergence is ensured by some extra constraints; Finally, formation control simulation with respect to three ground robots is conducted and the results show the improvement of the new given algorithm in the real time capability and the insensitiveness to the measurement noise.
Solar radiation is one of the most important factors affecting climate and environment, and its long-term variation is of much concern in climate change studies. In the light of the limited number of radiation stations with reliable long-term time series observations, this paper presents a new evaluation of the long-term variation of surface solar radiation over China by combining quality-controlled observed data and two radiation models. One is the ANN-based (Artificial Neutral Network) model and the other is a physical model. The two models produce radiation trends comparable to the observed ones at a few validation stations possessing reliable and continuous data. Then, the trend estimate is extended by the ANN-based model to all 96 radiation stations and furthermore extended by the physical model to all 716 China Meteorological Administration (CMA) routine stations. The new trend estimate is different from previous ones in two aspects. First, the magnitude of solar radiation over China decreased by about -0.23 W m(-2) yr(-1) between 1961 and 2000, which is greatly less in magnitude than trend slopes estimated in previous studies (ranging over -0.41 similar to -0.52 W m(-2) yr(-1)). Second, the "From Dimming to Brightening" transition in China during the late 1980s similar to the early 1990s was addressed in previous studies, but this study indicates the solar radiation reached a stable level since the 1990s and the transition is not noticeable. These differences indicate the importance of data-quality control and analysis approaches. Finally, an obvious transition from brightening to dimming around 1978 is found over the Tibetan Plateau, where aerosol loads are very low, indicating that the importance of cloud changes in altering solar radiation may be comparable to that of the aerosol changes.
In this paper, we study the finite-horizon optimal control problem for discrete-time nonlinear systems using the adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) approach. The idea is to use an iterative ADP algorithm to obtain the optimal control law which makes the performance index function close to the greatest lower bound of all performance indices within an epsilon-error bound. The optimal number of control steps can also be obtained by the proposed ADP algorithms. A convergence analysis of the proposed ADP algorithms in terms of performance index function and control policy is made. In order to facilitate the implementation of the iterative ADP algorithms, neural networks are used for approximating the performance index function, computing the optimal control policy, and modeling the nonlinear system. Finally, two simulation examples are employed to illustrate the applicability of the proposed method.
In order to meet the growing demand for high-quality images, optical elements of freeform surface are more and more applied to imaging system. However the fabrication of freeform surface optical elements is much more difficult than that of traditional spherical ones. Recent research on freeform surface manufacture often deals with precision machine tools which have limitations on dimensions and are always expensive. Little has been researched on industrial robots. In this paper, a new method of freeform surface grinding based on industrial robots was found. This method could be applied to both whole surface grinding as well as partial surface grinding. The diameter of lenses to be ground would not be restricted to the machine tool's size. In this method a high-speed-rotating soft wheel was used. The relation between removing amount and grinding time which could be called removing function was established and measured. The machining precision was achieved by means of controlling the grinding time instead of the machine tool or industrial robot itself. There are two main factors affecting the removing function: i).rotating speed of the soft wheel; ii).pressure between the wheel and the work piece. In this paper, two groups of experiments have been conducted. One is the removing function tested at constant rotating speed while under different pressure. The other is that tested under a certain pressure with variable speed. Tables and curves which can show the effect of speed and pressure on the removing efficiency have been obtained. Cause for inaccuracy between experiment data and calculated result according to the theory and the non-linearity in the curves was analyzed. Through these analyses the removing function could be concluded under certain condition including rotating speed and pressure. Finally several experiments were performed to verify the appropriateness of the removing function. It could also be concluded that this method was more efficient in comparison with traditional grinding technology particularly in the aspect of partial surface grinding. This paper also brought up a new idea that this method could be combined with other freeform surface grinding technics to realize a more flexible, efficient, reliable and economical type of optical fabrication. It would become a potential technic especially for partial optical surface grinding and repair.
In allusion to the inadequacy of existing intelligent systems based on long-distance agricultural data acquisition and processing of field farm, research and development of long-distance agricultural data acquisition and quick processing system is realized via integration of technologies of sensor, ZigBee, GPRS and Internet. The system is built on plant growth sensors and ZigBee wireless sensor network. The core of this system is ST's low-power ARM11 processor module, and design of the wireless monitoring child node and gateway routing convergence master nodes are achieved by this module. At the same the design of long-distance wireless data transmission and information monitoring are actualized through seamless connection of Zigbee, GPRS and Internet networks. The Wireless monitoring child nodes are located in the various measuring points of Agricultural fields, and their tasks are collection, pretreatment, and wireless transmission of environmental information such as environmental temperature, environmental humidity, Light intensity, precipitation rain fall,soil temperature, soil humidity, soil PH, soil salt content and so on. The gateway routing master nodes of data aggregation finish verification of data implementation of all child nodes and sending and combination of data packets. The remote data storage and information posted online are accomplished by the data service center.
In this paper, we consider a multi-agent consensus problem with an active leader and variable interconnection topology. The dynamics of the active leader is given in a general form of linear system. The switching interconnection topology with communication delay among the agents is taken into consideration. A neighbor-based estimator is designed for each agent to obtain the unmeasurable state variables of the dynamic leader, and then a distributed feedback control law is developed to achieve consensus. The feedback parameters are obtained by solving a Riccati equation. By constructing a common Lyapunov function, some sufficient conditions are established to guarantee that each agent can track the active leader by assumption that interconnection topology is undirected and connected. We also point out that some results can be generalized to a class of directed interaction topologies. Moreover, the input-to-state stability (ISS) is obtained for multi-agent system with variable interconnection topology and communication delays in a disturbed environment.
It is important to study on environmental monitoring and control of greenhouse and improve agriculture facilities. The mathematics model of environment temperature is established based on the fuzzy control theory which deals with the problems of traditional greenhouse, such as outdated management, high cost, low-level, etc. automatically. The system detects the environment parameters based on PCI-DAQ data acquisition system, and adjusts the air blower rotate speed by frequency converter. It is used to run in real environment, the original environment temperature is 30 degrees C, the given value is 27 degrees C, and the range is within +/- 0.5 degrees C. The system controls the temperature parameter real-timely based on fuzzy control technology. Compared with the traditional PID control system, it can increase the stability of system, avoid the subjectivity and random of manual operation, and improve precision and efficiency of the whole system. The system has high practical value and using prospect since it meets the request of scientific producing and automatic management of greenhouse.
According to QAR data, a fair number of pilots' operations are beyond safety standards in all phases of flight courses, such as landing vertical load heavier, touchdown point further. Together with unfavorable conditions, flight exceedance may lead to serious flight incidents or accidents. These are hidden danger to air transportation. In this paper, we analyze time-series data of QAR recorder. Key features are extracted and converted to impact factors. Based on this, an improved neural network using L-M algorithm has been designed to identify precursors of flight exceedance. These precursors mainly refer to coordinated control of airplane's rate of descent, air speed, heading, roll and pitch, etc. Through empirical study, we construct the precursor identification model for a certain exceedance. Experiment results show that the proposed approach is effective.
In this paper a leader-following consensus problem of second-order multi-agent systems with fixed and switching topologies as well as non-uniform time-varying delays is considered For the case of fixed topology a necessary and sufficient condition is obtained For the case of switching topology a sufficient condition is obtained under the assumption that the total period over which the leader is globally reachable is sufficiently large We not only prove that a consensus is reachable asymptotically but also give an estimation of the convergence rate An example with simulation is presented to illustrate the theoretical results (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd All rights reserved
In this note, the robust output regulation problem of a multi-agent system is considered. An internal model based distributed control scheme is adopted to achieve the objectives of asymptotic tracking and disturbance rejection in an uncertain multi-agent system where both the reference inputs and disturbances are generated by an exosystem.
This paper presents a novel quantitative credit scoring model based on support vector machine (SVM) with adaptive genetic algorithm, gr-GA-SVM. In this study, two real world credit datasets in the University of California Irvine Machine Learning Repository are selected for the numerical experiments. SVM, GA-SVM and gr-GA-SVM, are employed to predict the accuracy of credit scoring in two datasets. Numerical results indicate that gr-GA-SVM is more accurate and efficient than SVM and GA-SVM.
Ore grade estimation is one of the most key and complicated aspects in the evaluation of a mineral deposit. Its complexity originates from scientific uncertainty. This paper introduces a new nonlinear and adaptive method to the problem of ore grade estimation, which is based on the Wavelet Neural Network (WNN) approach, and is designed to receive drill hole information from an orebody and perform ore grade estimation on a block model basis. The nonlinear ore grade estimation method combining the properties of the wavelet transform and the advantages of Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) provides fast and reliable ore grade estimation, with minimum assumptions and minimum requirements for modeling skills. A number of case studies have been carried out using the new ore grade estimation method. The results obtained and the overall functionality of the method prove that Wavelet Neural Networks can offer a fast and robust grade estimation technique and a valid alternative to well established methodologies in this area. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper the robust H-infinity state estimation problem is investigated for a general class of uncertain discrete-time stochastic neural networks with probabilistic measurement delays The measurement delays of the neural networks are described by a binary switching sequence satisfying a conditional probability distribution The neural network under study Involves parameter uncertainties stochastic disturbances and time-varying delays and the activation functions are characterized by sector-like nonlinearities The problem addressed is the design of a full-order state estimator for all admissible uncertainties nonlinearities and time-delays the dynamics of the estimation error is constrained to be robustly exponentially stable in the mean square and at the same time a prescribed H-infinity disturbance rejection attenuation level is guaranteed By using the Lyapunov stability theory and stochastic analysis techniques sufficient conditions are first established to ensure the existence of the desired estimators These conditions are dependent on the lower and upper bounds of the time-varying delays Then the explicit expression of the desired estimator gains is described in terms of the solution to a linear matrix inequality (LMI) Finally a numerical example is exploited to show the usefulness of the results derived (C) 2010 Elsevier B V All rights reserved
Using the support vector machine (SVM), an empirical local ionospheric forecasting model over Lanzhou (ELIFMOL) has been developed to predict the critical frequency of the F-2 layer (f(o)F(2)) during disturbed geomagnetic conditions. This study focuses on the reliable prediction of f(o)F(2) during geomagnetic storms, which is important for practical applications as well as for further understanding of the storm dynamics. In this paper, we investigate whether f(o)F(2) during disturbed geomagnetic conditions at a single station can be well predicted one hour ahead by using some inputs to an SVM network, such as the latest f(o)F(2) observations, hourly quiet time f(o)F(2) (f(o)F(2QT)), time, and the hourly time-weighted accumulation series derived from the geomagnetic index (ap(tau)). The input observation data cover the period of January 1958 to December 2000 at Lanzhou (36.1 degrees N, 104.0 degrees E) in China. The f(o)F(2) forecasted by the ELIFMOL are compared with the monthly median values and with those by the STORMMEDIAN model, the persistence model, and the STORMfoF2QT model during geomagnetic storms occurring from 2001 to 2006. As for the data sets used in this paper, the results show that the performance of ELIFMOL is better than that of the latter models.
Volumetric water content of a silt loam soil (fluvo-aquic soil) in North China Plain was measured in situ by L-520 neutron probe (made in China) at three depths in the crop rootzone during a lysimeter experiment from 2001 to 2006. The electrical conductivity of the soil water (EC(sw)) was measured by salinity sensors buried in the soil during the same period at 10, 20,45 and 70 cm depth below soil surface. These data were used to test two mathematical procedures to predict water content and soil water salinity at depths of interest: all the available data were divided into training and testing datasets, then back propagation neural networks (BPNNs) were optimized by sensitivity analysis to minimizing the performance error, and then were finally used to predict soil water and EC(sw). In order to meet with the prerequisite of autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model, firstly, original soil water content and EC(sw) time series were likewise transformed to obtain stationary series. Subsequently, the transformed time series were used to conduct analysis in frequency domain to obtain the parameters of the ARIMA models for the purposes of using the ARIMA model to predict soil water content and EC(sw). Based on the statistical parameters used to assess model performance, the BPNN model performed better in predicting the average water content than the ARIMA model: coefficient of determination (R(2)) = 0.8987, sum of squares error (SSE) = 0.000009, and mean absolute error (MAE) = 0.000967 for BPNN as compared to R(2) = 0.8867, SSE = 0.000043, MAE = 0.002211 for ARIMA. The BPNN model also performed better than the ARIMA model in predicting average EC(sw) of soil profile. However, the ARIMA model performed better than the BPNN models in predicting soil water content at the depth of 20 cm and EC(sw) at the depth of 10 cm below soil surface. Overall, the model developed by BPNN network showed its advantage of less parameter input, nonlinearity, simple model structure and good prediction of soil EC(sw) and water content, and it gave an alternative method in forecasting soil water and salt dynamics to those based on deterministic models based on Richards' equation and Darcy's law provided climatic, cropping patterns, salinity of the irrigation water and irrigation management are very similar from one year to the next. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The Hopfield network is reconstructed as an inverse Ising problem by passing messages. The applied susceptibility propagation algorithm is shown to improve significantly on other mean-field-type methods and extends well into the low-temperature region. However, this iterative algorithm is limited by the nature of the supplied data. Its performance deteriorates as the data become highly magnetized, and this method finally fails in the presence of the frozen type data where at least two of its magnetizations are equal to 1 in absolute value. On the other hand, a threshold behavior is observed for the susceptibility propagation algorithm and the transition from good reconstruction to poor one becomes sharper as the network size increases.
Plackett-Burman and central composite designs were applied to optimize the medium for ethanol production by Clostridium autoethanogenum with CO as sole carbon source, and a medium containing (g/L): NaCl 1.0, KH(2)PO(4) 0.1, CaCl(2) 0.02, yeast extract 0.15. MgSO(4) 0.116, NH(4)Cl 1.694 and pH 4.74 was found optimal. The optimum ethanol yields predicted by response surface methodology (RSM) and an artificial neural network-genetic algorithm (ANN-GA) were 247.48 and 261.48 mg/L, respectively. These values are similar to those obtained experimentally under the optimal conditions suggested by the statistical methods (254.26 and 259.64 mg/L). The fitness of the ANN-GA model was higher than that of the RSM model. The yields obtained substantially exceed those previously reported (60-70 mg/L) with this organism. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recent years have witnessed numerous technical breakthroughs in electronics, computing, sensing, robotics, control, signal processing, and communications. These have significantly advanced the state of applications of intelligent transportation systems. More recently, as one leading effort toward the cyber-physical-social system, the concept of intelligent transportation spaces was proposed to further improve the vehicles, traffic, and transportation safety, efficiency and sustainability. ITSp integrate not only various ITS modules, but also pedestrians, vehicles, roadside infrastructures, traffic management centers, sensors, and satellites. With distributed and pervasive intelligence, ITSp clearly impose some stringent requirements on the information exchange among all entities within the ITSp, in terms of the information availability, reliability, fidelity, and timeliness. These requirements, together with the high mobility of vehicles and the highly variable network topology, make the communications and networking for ITSp very challenging. This article will introduce the concept of ITSp and analyze possible communication technology candidates for ITSp. Further discussions will also be provided at the end of this article.
Multiple object tracking is particularly challenging when many objects with similar appearances occlude one another. Most existing approaches concatenate the states of different objects, view the multi-object tracking as a joint motion estimation problem and search for the best state of the joint motion in a rather high dimensional space. However, this centralized framework suffers from a high computational load. We bring a new view to the tracking problem from a swarm intelligence perspective. In analogy with the foraging behavior of bird flocks, we propose a species-based particle swarm optimization algorithm for multiple object tracking, in which the global swarm is divided into many species according to the number of objects, and each species searches for its object and maintains track of it. The interaction between different objects is modeled as species competition and repulsion, and the occlusion relationship is implicitly deduced from the "power" of each species, which is a function of the image observations. Therefore, our approach decentralizes the joint tracker to a set of individual trackers, each of which tries to maximize its visual evidence. Experimental results demonstrate the efficiency and effectiveness of our method.
Based on a biological assumption, a multi-pattern CPG model which potentially improves the adaptability of snake-like robots is proposed. At first, we give an assumption of relationship among neural network, muscle groups and locomotion of a real snake. Then, the CPG model is constructed which could generate three patterns of locomotion for snake-like robots. Next, the stability and properties of this model are discussed. Finally, the adaptability of this CPG model is verified on a simulation platform. A similarity is found through the comparison between snake-like robot locomotion and real snake locomotion. This work makes snake-like robots be better adapted to environments.
In this paper, we investigate the axiomatic semantics of the projection temporal logic programming language MSVL. To this end, we employ Propositional Projection Temporal Logic (PPTL) as an assertion language to specify the desired properties. We give a set of state axioms and state inference rules. In order to deduce a program over an interval, we also formalise a set of rules in terms of a Hoare logic-like triple. These rules enable us to deduce a program into its normal form and from the current state to the next one. They also enable us to verify properties over intervals. In this way, an axiom system for proving the correctness of MSVL programs is established. The axiom system is proved to be sound and relatively complete with respect to an operational model of MSVL, and give an example showing how the axiom system works. Finally, we employ a recently developed prototype verifier based on PVS as an example of semi-automatic verification using MSVL.
Bioluminescence tomography is a novel optical molecular imaging technology. The corresponding system, theory, and algorithmic frames have been set up. In the present study, we concentrated on the analysis of quantitative reconstruction deviation from peak-wavelength shift of luminescent source and the deviation of heterogeneous mouse model. The findings suggest that the reconstruction results are significantly affected by the peak-wavelength shift and deviation of anatomical structure animal models. Furthermore, the model deviations exhibit much more influence than the wavelength shift on the reconstruction results.
Due to the rapid increase of new information on the multiple roles of Toll-like receptors (TLRs), this paper reviews several main properties of TLRs and their ligands and signaling pathways. The investigation of pathogen infections in knockout mice suggests that specific TLRs play a key role in the activation of immune responses. Although the investigation of TLR biology is just beginning, a number of important findings are emerging. This review focuses on the following seven aspects of this emerging field: (a) a history of TLR and ligand studies; (b) the molecular basis of recognition by TLRs: TLR structures, pathogen-associated molecular pattern binding sites, TLR locations and functional responses; (c) cell types in TLR expression; (d) an overview of TLRs and their ligands: expression and ligands of cell-surface TLRs and of intracellular TLRs; (e) TLR-signaling pathways; (f) discussion: TLRs control of innate and adaptive systems; the trafficking of intracellular TLRs to endolysosomes; investigation of TLRs in regulating microRNA; investigation of crystal structure of TLRs with ligand binding; incidence of infectious diseases associated with single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in TLR genes; risk of cancer related to SNPs in TLR genes; TLR-ligand mediated anti-cancer effects; and TLR-ligand induced chronic inflammation and tumorigenesis; and (g) conclusions.
With dynamic mediums such as computer displays, we propose a new kind of visually dynamic presentation of proofs in plane geometry. In a single diagram for the proof, when the proof text goes on step by step with mouse clicks, the related geometry elements in the diagram are added, animated, or deleted dynamically with various visually dynamic effects. It solves not only the problem of identifying geometry elements in the proof text with those in the diagram, but also makes the proof more vividly visualized and intuitive. Our ongoing developing system "Java Geometry Expert" (JGEX) uses two methods to create such visually dynamic presentations: the manual input method and the automatic method. In this first part of the series of our work, we propose the main features of our visually dynamic presentation of proofs and present the manual input method to create such presentations. The manual input method mainly uses mouse clicks to create the dynamic geometry diagram and the proof text.
We present the method for automated generation of visually dynamic presentations of plane geometry proofs based on the full-angle method. The proof generated by the full-angle method is organized hierarchically, thus it is particularly suitable for visual presentations. We also present the method for automated generation of visually dynamic presentation of proofs for the deductive database method with an additional new visual feature: given a geometrical configuration or a diagram, the final database (the fixpoint) in the deductive database method has numerous geometric properties organized into a few categories. By clicking each category, all properties of the configuration in this category are listed. And by clicking each of these properties, the corresponding geometry elements in the diagram blink or animate and, if needed, the proof of this property is generated.
Detecting communities from complex networks is an important issue and has attracted attention of researchers in many fields. It is relevant to social tasks, biological inquiries, and technological problems since various networks exist in these systems. This paper proposes a new self-organizing map (SOM) based approach to community detection. By adopting a new operation and a new weight-updating scheme, a complex network can be organized into dense subgraphs according to the topological connection of each node by the SOM algorithm. Extensive numerical experiments show that the performance of the SOM algorithm is good. It can identify communities more accurately than existing methods. This method can be used to detect communities not only in undirected networks, but also in directed networks and bipartite networks.
This paper proposes an approach to identify the topological structure and unknown parameters for uncertain general complex networks with non-derivative and derivative coupling. By designing effective adaptive controller, the unknown network topological structure and system parameters of uncertain general complex dynamical networks are identified simultaneously in the process of synchronization. Several useful criteria for synchronization are given. Finally, numerical simulations are presented to verify the effectiveness of the theoretical results obtained in this paper. (C) 2010 The Franklin Institute. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper a new iterative heuristic dynamic programming (HDP) algorithm is proposed to solve the optimal control problem for a class of nonlinear discrete time-delay systems with saturating actuators. Considering the saturation nonlinearity in the actuators, a nonquadratic performance index function is introduced. In the meantime, a state modification is used to deal with the obstacle induced by time delays. In the new iterative HDP algorithm the local and global optimization searching processes are developed to solve the optimal feedback control problem with convergence analysis. In the presented iterative HDP algorithm, two neural networks are used to facilitate the implementation of the iterative algorithm. Finally, two simulation examples are given to demonstrate the convergence and feasibility of the proposed optimal control scheme. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
It is important to translate dosage of each medical herb in a prescription into intensity of its effects measured by mathematical models. In this paper, we present intelligent calculational algorithms on efficacies of prescriptions of Chinese Medicine (CM), study "how curative effects of any herb depend on dosage" when constructing CM intelligent systems, and discuss relevant issues and definitions. In order to measure intensities of effects of all herbs reasonably, the natural classification method is proposed to classify herbs into 38 natural classes according to their dosage ranges using the knowledge of CM dosage and distribution rules of herbs. Then the 38 natural classes are clustered to 6 basic classes reflecting characteristic attributes of various herbs. Based on the results of classified herbs, a set of nonlinear measuring functions of intensities of effects is designed for various basic classes. These functions have been embedded in our intelligent calculation system of efficacies of prescriptions. The effects of 560 herbs and curative efficacies of more than 1000 prescriptions derived from "ShangHan Lun", "JinGui YaoLue", "Ming Jia Yi An", etc., have been calculated and discovered successfully. It is proved that the accuracy of theses results by these models has been obviously enhanced.
The purpose of the present paper is to study the classification methods of gasoline. First, two classific models are compared using discriminant cluster analysis method in 700-1 100 nm and 1 100-1 700 nm spectral region. The sample is 90(#), 935 and 975 gasoline. The results show that the model in 1 100-1 700 nm spectral region is veracious. And then a new model has been educed based on principal component analysis (PCA) and self-organizing competitive neural networks in order to classify 904(#), 93(#) and 97(#) gasoline. The spectral data were condensed by PCA method before modeling, and three principal components were chosen because their cumulative credibility had reached 97%. A three-layer self-organizing competitive neural network model was established. Thirty-two wavelengths' absorbance is the concentrated spectral data by PCA method, and served as inputs of the self-organizing competitive neural network. The learning parameter is set as 0.01 and the training iteration is taken as 500. The conclusion is that it is feasible to apply near infrared spectroscopy to discriminate the gasoline products as the PCA and self-organizing competitive neural networks method is used. Also the PCA and self-organizing competitive neural networks method is better than the discriminant cluster analysis method.
We compared nonlinear principal component analysis (NLPCA) with linear principal component analysis (LPCA) with the data of sea surface wind anomalies (SWA), surface height anomalies (SSHA), and sea surface temperature anomalies (SSTA), taken in the South China Sea (SCS) between 1993 and 2003. The SCS monthly data for SWA, SSHA and SSTA (i.e., the anomalies with climatological seasonal cycle removed) were pre-filtered by LPCA, with only three leading modes retained. The first three modes of SWA, SSHA, and SSTA of LPCA explained 86%, 71%, and 94% of the total variance in the original data, respectively. Thus, the three associated time coefficient functions (TCFs) were used as the input data for NLPCA network. The NLPCA was made based on feed-forward neural network models. Compared with classical linear PCA, the first NLPCA mode could explain more variance than linear PCA for the above data. The nonlinearity of SWA and SSHA were stronger in most areas of the SCS. The first mode of the NLPCA on the SWA and SSHA accounted for 67.26% of the variance versus 54.7%, and 60.24% versus 50.43%, respectively for the first LPCA mode. Conversely, the nonlinear SSTA, localized in the northern SCS and southern continental shelf region, resulted in little improvement in the explanation of the variance for the first NLPCA.
This paper investigates the average-consensus problem of first-order discrete-time multi-agent networks in uncertain communication environments. Each agent can only use its own and neighbors' information to design its control input. To attenuate the communication noises, a distributed stochastic approximation type protocol is used. By using probability limit theory and algebraic graph theory, consensus conditions for this kind of protocols are obtained: (A) For the case of fixed topologies, a necessary and sufficient condition for mean square average-consensus is given, which is also sufficient for almost sure consensus. (B) For the case of time-varying topologies, sufficient conditions for mean square average-consensus and almost sure consensus are given, respectively. Especially, if the network switches between jointly-containing-spanning-tree, instantaneously balanced graphs, then the designed protocol can guarantee that each individual state converges, both almost surely and in mean square, to a common random variable, whose expectation is right the average of the initial states of the whole system, and whose variance describes the static maximum mean square error between each individual state and the average of the initial states of the whole system.
This paper investigates the problem of output feedback attitude control of an uncertain spacecraft. Two robust adaptive output feedback controllers based on Chebyshev neural networks (CNN) termed adaptive neural networks (NN) controller-I and adaptive NN controller-II are proposed for the attitude tracking control of spacecraft. The four-parameter representations (quaternion) are employed to describe the spacecraft attitude for global representation without singularities. The nonlinear reduced-order observer is used to estimate the derivative of the spacecraft output, and the CNN is introduced to further improve the control performance through approximating the spacecraft attitude motion. The implementation of the basis functions of the CNN used in the proposed controllers depends only on the desired signals, and the smooth robust compensator using the hyperbolic tangent function is employed to counteract the CNN approximation errors and external disturbances. The adaptive NN controller-II can efficiently avoid the over-estimation problem (i.e., the bound of the CNNs output is much larger than that of the approximated unknown function, and hence, the control input may be very large) existing in the adaptive NN controller-I. Both adaptive output feedback controllers using CNN can guarantee that all signals in the resulting closed-loop system are uniformly ultimately bounded. For performance comparisons, the standard adaptive controller using the linear parameterization of spacecraft attitude motion is also developed. Simulation studies are presented to show the advantages of the proposed CNN-based output feedback approach over the standard adaptive output feedback approach.
Robust H-infinity control and uniformly bounded control for a genetic regulatory network (GRN) with stochastic disturbance are considered, where the GRN is delayed with SUM regulatory functions. A sufficient condition is derived to ensure the mean-square stability of stochastic GRN. Robust H-infinity controller is then designed to stabilise the stochastic GRN in the mean square sense. Furthermore, some robust uniformly bounded controllers are also proposed to overcome the flaws where H-infinity control cannot be used. Finally, numerical results are given to verify the theoretical analysis in this paper.
Over the years development of selective estrogen receptor (ER) ligands has been of great concern to researchers involved in the chemistry and pharmacology of anticancer drugs, resulting in numerous synthesized selective ER subtype inhibitors. In this work, a data set of 82 ER ligands with ER alpha and ER beta inhibitory activities was built, and quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) methods based on the two linear (multiple linear regression, MLR, partial least squares regression, PLSR) and a nonlinear statistical method (Bayesian regularized neural network, BRNN) were applied to investigate the potential relationship of molecular structural features related to the activity and selectivity of these ligands. For ER alpha and ER beta, the performances of the MLR and PLSR models are superior to the BRNN model, giving more reasonable statistical properties (ER alpha: for MLR, R-tr(2) = 0.72, Q(te)(2) = 0.63; for PLSR, R-tr(2) = 0.92, Q(te)(2) = 0.84. ER beta: for MLR, R-tr(2) = 0.75, Q(te)(2) = 0.75; for PLSR, R-tr(2) = 0.98, Q(te)(2) = 0.80). The MLR method is also more powerful than other two methods for generating the subtype selectivity models, resulting in R-tr(2) = 0.74 and Q(te)(2) = 0.80. In addition, the molecular docking method was also used to explore the possible binding modes of the ligands and a relationship between the 3D-binding modes and the 2D-molecular structural features of ligands was further explored. The results show that the binding affinity strength for both ER alpha and ER beta is more correlated with the atom fragment type, polarity, electronegativites and hydrophobicity. The substitutent in position 8 of the naphthalene or the quinoline plane and the space orientation of these two planes contribute the most to the subtype selectivity on the basis of similar hydrogen bond interactions between binding ligands and both ER subtypes. The QSAR models built together with the docking procedure should be of great advantage for screening and designing ER ligands with improved affinity and subtype selectivity property.
Support Vector Machine, an optimization technique, is well known in the data mining community. In fact, many other optimization techniques have been effectively used in dealing with data separation and analysis. For the last 10 years, the author and his colleagues have proposed and extended a series of optimization-based classification models via Multiple Criteria Linear Programming (MCLP) and Multiple Criteria Quadratic Programming (MCQP). These methods are different from statistics, decision tree induction, and neural networks. The purpose of this paper is to review the basic concepts and frameworks of these methods and promote the research interests in the data mining community. According to the evolution of multiple criteria programming, the paper starts with the bases of MCLP. Then, it further discusses penalized MCLP, MCQP, Multiple Criteria Fuzzy Linear Programming (MCFLP), Multi-Class Multiple Criteria Programming (MCMCP), and the kernel-based Multiple Criteria Linear Program, as well as MCLP-based regression. This paper also outlines several applications of Multiple Criteria optimization-based data mining methods, such as Credit Card Risk Analysis, Classification of HIV-1 Mediated Neuronal Dendritic and Synaptic Damage, Network Intrusion Detection, Firm Bankruptcy Prediction, and VIP E-Mail Behavior Analysis.
Context: Most of what we know about antipsychotic drug effects is at the receptor level, distal from the neural system effects that mediate their clinical efficacy. Studying cerebral function in antipsychotic-naive patients with schizophrenia before and after pharmacotherapy can enhance understanding of the therapeutic mechanisms of these clinically effective treatments.
Extensive studies have been conducted to examine various attentional control effects that stem from stimulus stimulus (S-S) and stimulus response (S-R) incompatibility. Among these behavioral paradigms, the best-known are the Stroop effect, the Simon effect, and Posner's cue validity effect. In this study, we designed two behavioral tasks incorporating these effects (Simon-color-Stroop and Simon-spatial-Stroop) guided by a general framework of S-R ensemble, the dimensional overlap theory. We analyzed various attentional effects according to dimensional overlaps among S-S and S-R ensembles and their combinations. We found that behavioral performance was independently affected by various dimensional overlaps in the Simon-color-Stroop task, whereas different sources of dimensional overlap in the Simon-spatial-Stroop task interacted with each other. We argue that the dimensional overlap theory can be extended to serve as a viable unified theory that accounts for diverse attentional effects and their interactions and helps to elucidate neural networks subserving attentional control.
The feasibility of using Fourier transform mid-infrared photoacoustic spectroscopy (FTIR-PAS) for rapid characterization of animal manures was investigated. Animal manure samples were collected from various places in China, and probabilistic neural networks (PNN) and partial least squares (PLS) were initially applied in the qualitative and quantitative analysis of animal manures, respectively. The animal manures exhibited distinctive bands, specifically around 2900-3700 cm(-1), 1200-1800 cm(-1) and 500-1100 cm(-1). There were numerous differences in the spectra of different animal manures, and manures were successful identified by PNN model; organic matter contents in animal manure were well predicted by PLS model, and the calibration coefficient (R-2), validation error and RPD (ratio of standard deviation to predicted error) were 0.93, 2.38% and 2.58%, respectively, suggesting the potential application of FTIR-PAS for the fast characterization of animal manures. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Although has been widely used to study geographical problems, case-based reasoning (CBR) method is far less than perfect and research is in great need of to improve CBR-based geographic data representation modeling, as well as spatial similarity computation and reasoning algorithm. This paper reports an improved CBR-based method for studying the spatially complex land use change. Based on a brief summary of advantages and challenges of current existing quantitative methods, the paper first proposes to introduce the CBR approach for land use change study. A three-component model ("problem", "geographic environment", and "outcome") was proposed to represent the land use change cases among which there are complicated and inherent spatial relationships. This paper then presents an algorithm to retrieve the inherent spatial relationships, which are then introduced into the CBR similarity reasoning algorithm to predict land use change. The method was tested by examining the land use change in Pearl River Mouth area in China and yields a similar prediction accuracy of 80% as that derived by applying the Bayesian networks approach to the exact same data. As a result, the CBR-based method proposed in this study provides an effective and explicit solution to represent and solve the complicated geographic problems. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A neural-network-based adaptive approach is proposed for the leader-following control of multiagent systems. The neural network is used to approximate the agent's uncertain dynamics, and the approximation error and external disturbances are counteracted by employing the robust signal. When there is no control input constraint, it can be proved that all the following agents can track the leader's time-varying state with the tracking error as small as desired. Compared with the related work in the literature, the uncertainty in the agent's dynamics is taken into account; the leader's state could be time-varying; and the proposed algorithm for each following agent is only dependent on the information of its neighbor agents. Finally, the satisfactory performance of the proposed method is illustrated by simulation examples.
A dual neural-network method for the coordination of kinematically redundant robots is proposed in this paper. The performance criteria for single robots provided by Nedungadi and Kazerounian are generalized to a multicriteria form for the coordinated-manipulation system composed of multiple serial manipulators. By optimizing the local joint torques and generalized forces applied on the object/workpiece using a designed weighting matrix, the proposed method achieves the global stability during the coordinated-manipulation process. Moreover, the proposed algorithm has an explicit physical meaning, i.e., both the global kinetic energy of the coordination system and the two-norm of the generalized forces applied on the object are minimized simultaneously. In addition, the physical limits of both joint torques and the generalized forces applied on the object are considered, which makes the original coordination problem become a complicated optimization problem subject to both equality and inequality constraints. Compared with numerical optimization algorithms used in existing literatures, the dual neural-network method has better computational capability to deal with the complicated optimization problem. Finally, illustrative examples are given to show that the proposed method is effective and efficient for the multirobot coordinated-manipulation system.
Flexibility of assembly systems is crucial to maintaining the competitiveness in the rapidly changing market. In this paper, a novel flexible fixturing system for sheet metal part assembly is presented, which utilizes parallel robots as reconfigurable fixture elements. The method of influence coefficients, combined with finite element analysis and screw theory, is used to analyze the variations in sheet metal assembly. In the analysis of assembly variations, a total of six variations involved in prewelding, underwelding, and afterwelding process are intensively considered. Screw theory is employed to model the kinematic and constraint features corresponding to the fixturing schemes. A robust fixture layout design model is developed based on the Lagrangian conditional extremum method. A case study illustrates that the robust optimal methodology and an optimal fixture layout scheme with less sensitivity can be obtained. [DOI: 10.1115/1.4002033]
Markov random field (MRF) and belief propagation have given birth to stereo vision algorithms with top performance. This article explores their biological plausibility. First, an MRF model guided by physiological and psychophysical facts was designed. Typically an MRF-based stereo vision algorithm employs a likelihood function that reflects the local similarity of two regions and a potential function that models the continuity constraint. In our model, the likelihood function is constructed on the basis of the disparity energy model because complex cells are considered as front-end disparity encoders in the visual pathway. Our likelihood function is also relevant to several psychological findings. The potential function in our model is constrained by the psychological finding that the strength of the cooperative interaction minimizing relative disparity decreases as the separation between stimuli increases. Our model is tested on three kinds of stereo images. In simulations on images with repetitive patterns, we demonstrate that our model could account for the human depth percepts that were previously explained by the second-order mechanism. In simulations on random dot stereograms and natural scene images, we demonstrate that false matches introduced by the disparity energy model can be reliably removed using our model. A comparison with the coarse-to-fine model shows that our model is able to compute the absolute disparity of small objects with larger relative disparity. We also relate our model to several physiological findings. The hypothesized neurons of the model are selective for absolute disparity and have facilitative extra receptive field. There are plenty of such neurons in the visual cortex. In conclusion, we think that stereopsis can be implemented by neural networks resembling MRF.
Artificial neural network (ANN) and genetic algorithm (GA) with uniform design (UD) were used to optimize the decoloration and lactosucrose (LS) recovery in solution with granular charcoal. Three input variables (dosage of charcoal, time, and temperature) were chosen in constructing the back propagation neural networks (BPNN) model, and decoloration rate and LS recovery rate as output variables. GA was used to optimize the input space of the ANN model to find out the Pareto-optimal set. The best parameters were the dosage of charcoal varying from 2.1894 to 2.1897%, time from 64.05 to 64.06 min, and temperature from 74.22 to 78.90 degrees C. The optimal predicted decoloration rate is 96.30% and LS recovery rate is 97.35%. Results from confirmative studies showed that decoloration rate was 94.85% and LS recovery rate was 97.23%, and the relative error of network predicted values and actual measured values were 1.51% and 0.12%, respectively. The results suggested that the UD-ANN-GA could effectively solve the separation efficiency by column chromatography and the method was reliable.
An artificial neural network (ANN) is used to model the middle atmosphere using a large number of TIMED/SABER limb sounding temperature profiles. A three-layer feed-forward network is chosen based on the back-propagation (BP) algorithm. Latitude, longitude, and height are chosen as the input vectors of the network while temperature is the output vector. The temperature observations during the period from 13 January through 16 March 2007, which are in the same satellite yaw, are taken as samples to train an ANN. Results suggest that the network has high quality for modeling spatial variations of temperature. Quantitative comparisons between the ANN outputs and those from the popular empirical NRLMSISE-00 model illustrate their generally consistent features and some specific differences. The NRLMSISE-00 model's zonal mean temperatures are too high by similar to 6 K-10 K near the stratopause, and the amplitude and phase of the planetary wave number 1 activity are different in some respects from the ANN simulations above 45-50 km, suggesting improvement is needed in the NRLMSISE-00 model for more accurate simulation near and above the stratopause.
Seafloor transponders can track underwater targets, for instance, underwater robots, in x-y space from their received acoustic signals, if the transponder positions are known exactly. However, it is not always possible to deploy the transponder precisely, so a calibration phase is needed to estimate the position of each transponder before doing any tracking or localization. An acoustic transponder can be calibrated from a towed acoustic interrogator. We propose a calibration method called perpendiculars intersection, which is different from traditional methods for transponders in the deep ocean. This method is used to obtain robust and high-resolution acoustic calibration process based on the three-dimensional and analytic geometry. The PI method is formulated combing the selection of measurement data, geometry and the motion dynamics of the moving interrogator. In addition, the least square method is applied to the outlier rejection with Chauvenet criteria. A Markov process is presented to simulate the motion of the research vessel. The Monte-Carlo simulation shows that the error of the estimated transponder position is much less than the GPS error. The probability statistics method of the confidence interval with a confidence degree of 0.99 on the transponder position estimates is also derived to prove that the PI calibration method is favorable with high precision. The performance of the calibration algorithms is demonstrated on the simulation data. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The latest generation of underwater robots employ manipulators without force sensors. Accordingly, this paper presents a novel 4-D fingertip force sensor based on an E-type membrane for underwater robot manipulators. Specifically, this sensor is aimed at obtaining the accurate interaction force between underwater robot manipulators and other objects. Moreover, a seal technique and natural pressure compensation for the sensor are also described. The experimental results demonstrate strong linearity, high sensitivity, and weak couplings.
Space manipulators are flexible structures. Vibration problem will be unavoidable due to motion or external disturbance excitation. Model based control methods will not maintain the required accuracy because of the existence of nonlinear factors and parameter uncertainties. To solve these problems, fuzzy logic control laws with different membership function groups are adopted to suppress vibrations of a flexible smart manipulator using collocated piezoelectric sensor/actuator pair. Also, dual-mode controllers combining fuzzy logic and proportional integral control are designed, for suppressing the lower amplitude vibration near the equilibrium point significantly. Experimental comparison research is conducted, using fuzzy control algorithms and the dual-mode controllers with different membership functions. The experimental results show that the adopted fuzzy control algorithms can substantially suppress the larger amplitude vibration; and the dual-mode controllers can also damp out the lower amplitude vibration significantly. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed fuzzy controllers and dual-mode controllers can suppress vibration effectively, and the optimal placement is feasible.
Climate projections for the Huaihe River Basin, China, for the years 2001-2100 are derived from the ECHAM5/MPI-OM model based on observed precipitation and temperature data covering 1964-2007. Streamflow for the Huaihe River under three emission scenarios (SRES-A2, A1B, B1) from 2010 to 2100 is then projected by applying artificial neural networks (ANN). The results show that annual streamflow will change significantly under the three scenarios from 2010 to 2100. The interannual fluctuations cover a significant increasing streamflow trend under the SRES-A2 scenario (2051-2085). The streamflow trend declines gradually under the SRES-A1B scenario (2024-2037), and shows no obvious trend under the SRES-B1 scenario. From 2010 to 2100, the correlation coefficient between the observed and modeled streamflow in SRES-A2 scenario is the best of the three scenarios. Combining SRES-A2 scenario of the ECHAM5 model and ANN might therefore be the best approach for assessing and projecting future water resources in the Huaihe basin and other catchments. Compared to the observed period of streamflows, the projected periodicity of streamflows shows significant changes under different emission scenarios. Under A2 scenario and A1B scenario, the period would delay to about 32-33a and 27-28a, respectively, but under B1 scenario, the period would not change, as it is about 5-6a and the observed period is about 7-8a. All this might affect drought/flood management, water supply and irrigation projects in the Huaihe River basin.
Numerous studies provide evidence that motor skill acquisition is associated with dynamic changes in cortical and subcortical regions. Athletes are a professional population who are engaged in extensive motor training for long periods. However, the neural substrates of extreme level motor performance have not been clarified. We used kinesthetic imagery task to induce the mental representation of sport expert's extraordinary performance in view of the shared substrates of executing movement and motor imagery. For the first time, we compared, through functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), the pattern of cerebral activations in 12 professional divers and 12 normal people without extensive training, during imagery of professional skills and imagery of simple motor skills. The sport experts showed significant activation in the parahippocampus during imagery of professional skills relative to the novices, which might reflect the representation adapted to experience-related motor tasks. No significant difference was found between experts and novices when they imagined simple motor skills. These results indicated the experts might utilize their kinesthetic imagery more efficiently than novices, but only for the activity in which they had expertise. The sport experts also demonstrated more focused activation patterns in prefrontal areas in both of imagery tasks, which may be relevant to higher order of motor control during motor imagery. Moreover, this study suggested that the brains of sport experts could be regarded as the ideal subjects to explore the relationship between cerebral plasticity and learning of complex motor skills. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We study the role of the dimer structure of light-harvesting complex II (LH2) in excitation transfer from the LH2 [without a reaction center (RC)] to the LH1 (surrounding the RC) or from the LH2 to another LH2. The excited and unexcited states of a bacteriochlorophyll (BChl) are modeled by a quasispin. In the framework of quantum open system theory, we represent the excitation transfer as the total leakage of the LH2 system and then calculate the transfer efficiency and average transfer time. For different initial states with various quantum superposition properties, we study how the dimerization of the B850 BChl ring can enhance the transfer efficiency and shorten the average transfer time. (C) 2010 American Institute of Physics. [doi:10.1063/1.3435213]
A general computational alloy design approach based on thermodynamic and physical metallurgical principles, and coupled with a genetic optimization scheme, is presented. The method is applied to the design of new ultra-high-strength maraging stainless steels strengthened by Ni3Ti intermetallics. In the first design round, the alloy composition is optimized on the basis of precipitate formation at a fixed ageing temperature without considering other steps in the heat treatment. In the second round, the alloy is redesigned, applying an integrated model which allows for the simultaneous optimization of alloy composition and the ageing temperature as well as the prior austenitization temperature. The experimental characterizations of prototype alloys clearly demonstrate that alloys designed by the proposed approach achieve the desired microstructures. (C) 2010 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recent years have seen increasing demand for wider application of strategic environmental assessment (SEA), especially SEA of major policies, as a powerful instrument to safeguard the environment during the rapid industrialization and urbanization in China. Debates on SEA are concentrated on its feasibility and effective implementation in practice. This study applies Emergy analysis within the framework of social-economic-natural complex eco-system theory to overcome the limitations of methods used for assessing regional sustainability so far. This established model is tested in the case of Chinese paper industry to assess the sustainability of 5 policy scenarios. The results show that Emergy-based Indices (EbI) are more effective to measure the sustainability of industry complex ecosystem, thus EbI approach is very useful in SEAs on policy scenarios of a given complex ecosystem. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Using 89 major Chinese cities which comprise the case study area, this article computed the urban thermo-effect of summer in the 1990s and 2000s compared to that in the 1950s, using the database of highest monthly temperatures recorded by national weather stations from 1951 to 2007. We conducted a temporal-spatial analysis of the calculated urban thermo-effect, after which we carried out grey correlation degree analysis, system core and coritivity computation of the 22 selected indicators that could affect the urban thermo-effect. These were performed in order to determine the main factors for comprehensive analysis of urban thermo-effect. Finally, we conducted multiple regression analysis between the computed urban thermo-effect and the main factors to create the comprehensive ecological model of the urban thermo-effect. The results indicate that the urban thermo-effect in the 2000s compared to that in the 1950s is stronger than that in the 1990s. Meanwhile, the respective maximum urban thermo-effects in the 2000s and in the 1990s compared to that in the 1950s are 1.97 K and 1.50 K, respectively. The strong positive urban thermo-effect occurred mainly in the northeastern Chinese cities during the 1990s, while it occurred in the northwestern cities and southeastern coastal cities during the 2000s. The six main factors of the urban thermo-effect are the total size, the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), the green area, and the population of the built-up area, as well as the gross of freight and annual electricity consumption. The multiple comprehensive ecological model of the urban thermo-effect is reliable because the residual error of the created model is smaller than 0.5 K. The study discovers that the mitigation of urban temperature increase is possible with the adjustment of these controllable factors. Moreover, the findings in this article could provide references to decisions made while carrying out urban planning and while implementing policies in the national and local scale. Our findings can also provide references to the urban planning and construction of other developing countries with high levels of urbanization and economic development. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper examines the relevance of various financial and economic indicators in forecasting business cycle turning points using neural network (NN) models. A three-layer feed-forward neural network model is used to forecast turning points in the business cycle of China. The NN model uses 13 indicators of economic activity as inputs and produces the probability of a recession as its output. Different indicators are ranked in terms of their effectiveness of predicting recessions in China. Out-of-sample results show that some financial and economic indicators, such as steel output, M2, Pig iron yield, and the freight volume of the entire society are useful for predicting recession in China using neural networks. The asymmetry of business cycle can be verified using our NN method.
To perform large scale or complicated manipulation tasks, a multi-fingered robotic hand sometimes has to sequentially adjust its grasp status to overcome constraints of the manipulation, such as workspace limits, force balance requirement, etc. Such a strategy of changing grasping status is called a finger gait, which exhibits strong hybrid characteristics due to the discontinuity caused by relocating limited fingers and the continuity caused by manipulating objects. This paper aims to explore the complicated finger gaits planning problem and provide a method for robotic hands to autonomously generate feasible finger gaits to accomplish given tasks. Based on the hybrid automaton formulation of a popular finger gaiting primitive, finger substitution, we formulate the finger gait planning problem into a classic motion planning problem with a hybrid configuration space. Inspired by the rapidly-exploring random tree (RRT) techniques, we develop a finger gait planner to quickly search for a feasible manipulation strategy with finger substitution primitives. To increase the search performance of the planner, we further develop a refined sampling strategy, a novel hybrid distance and an efficient exploring strategy with the consideration of the problem's hybrid nature. Finally, we use a representative numerical example to verify the validity of our problem formulation and the performance of the RRT based finger gait planner.
Consensusability of multi-agent systems (MASs) is a fundamental problem in the MAS research area, since when starting to design a consensus protocol, one should know whether or not there exists such a protocol that has the ability to make the MAS involved consensus. This technical note is aimed at studying the joint impact of the agent dynamic structure and the communication topology on consensusability. For the MASs with fixed topology and agents described by linear time-invariant systems, a necessary condition of consensusability with respect to a set of admissible consensus protocols is given, which is shown, under some mild conditions, to be necessary and sufficient.
This paper proposed a novel three degree of freedom (DOF) parallel manipulator two translations and one rotation. The mobility study and inverse kinematic analysis are conducted, and a CAD model is presented showing the design features. The optimization techniques based on artificial intelligence approaches are investigated to improve the system stiffness of the proposed 3-DOF parallel manipulator. Genetic algorithms and artificial neural networks are implemented as the intelligent optimization methods for the stiffness synthesis. The mean value and the standard deviation of the global stiffness distribution are proposed as the design indices. Both the single objective and multi-objective optimization issues are addressed. The effectiveness of this methodology is validated with Matlab.
Rationale: Wiring vascular and neural networks are known to share common molecular signaling pathways. Activation of transient receptor potential type C channels (TRPCs) has recently been shown to underlie chemotropic guidance of neural axons. It is thus of interest to examine whether TRPCs are also involved in vascular development.
Recent years have seen the rapid development of biosensor technology, system-on-chip design, wireless technology. and ubiquitous computing. When assembled into an autonomous body sensor network (BSN), the technologies become powerful tools in well-being monitoring, medical diagnostics, and personal connectivity. In this paper, we describe the first demonstration of a fully customized mixed-signal silicon chip that has most of the attributes required for use in a wearable or implantable BSN. Our intellectual-property blocks include low-power analog sensor interface for temperature and pH, a data multiplexing and conversion module, a digital platform based around an 8-b microcontroller, data encoding for spread-spectrum wireless transmission, and a RF section requiring very few off-chip components. The chip has been fully evaluated and tested by connection to external sensors, and it satisfied typical system requirements.
We evaluated real-time myoelectric pattern recognition control of a virtual arm by transradial amputees. Five unilateral patients performed 10 wrist and hand movements using their amputated and intact arms. In order to demonstrate the value of information from intrinsic hand muscles, this data was included in EMG recordings from the intact arm. With both arms, motions were selected in approximately 0.2 s on average, and completed in less than 1.25 s. Approximately 99% of wrist movements were completed using either arm; however, the completion rate of hand movements was significantly lower for the amputated arm (53.9% +/- 14.2%) than for the intact arm (69.4% +/- 13.1%). For the amputated arm, average classification accuracy for only 6 movements-including a single hand grasp-was 93.1% +/- 4.1%, compared to 84.4% +/- 7.2% for all 10 movements. Use of 6 optimally-placed electrodes only reduced this accuracy to 91.5% +/- 4.9%. These results suggest that muscles in the residual forearm produce sufficient myoelectric information for real-time wrist control, but not for performing multiple hand grasps. The outcomes of this study could aid the development of a practical multifunctional myoelectric prosthesis for transradial amputees, and suggest that increased EMG information-such as made available through targeted muscle reinnervation-could improve control of these prostheses.
Federation of intelligent systems is important to practice in applications. More recently, Digital Library (DL) interoperability has played an important role towards providing more visibility and accessibility to the broad range of rich digital resources collected by digital libraries and web-based services worldwide. In this paper, we describe how DL interoperability can be applied to mediating federated intelligent systems. Exemplified by the Digital Library for Life Science Learners (DLLSL) federated search project and the Open Archives Initiatives Protocol for Metadata Harvesting (OAI-PMH), we develop the design of an integrated DL system using harvesting methods towards DL interoperability, and the proposal of integrating federated search of non-OAI and harvesting of OAI repositories, which provides an even broader accessibility to intelligent systems with digital resources. This Meta-DL system helps researchers to locate, explore and use the resources in the expanding body of scholarly information by a simple middleware, such as Emerge (see "Section 2").
This paper considers finite-time chi-consensus problem for a multi-agent system with first-order individual dynamics and switching interaction topologies. Several distributed finite-time consensus rules are constructed for multi-agent dynamics in a unified way with the help of Lyapunov function and graph theory as well as homogeneity. Time-invariant non-smooth forms of finite-time neighbor-based controllers are proposed and a numerical example is shown for illustration.
Optimizing the system stiffness and dexterity of parallel manipulators by adjusting the geometrical parameters can be a difficult and time-consuming endeavor, especially when the variables are diverse and the objective functions are excessively complex. However, optimization techniques that are based on artificial intelligence approaches can be an effective solution for addressing this issue. Accordingly, this paper describes the implementation of genetic algorithms and artificial neural networks as an intelligent optimization tool for the dimensional synthesis of the spatial six degree-of-freedom (DOF) parallel manipulator. The objective functions of system stiffness and dexterity are derived according to kinematic analysis of the parallel mechanism. In particular, the neural network-based standard backpropagation learning algorithm and the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm are utilized to approximate the analytical solutions of system stiffness and dexterity. Subsequently, genetic algorithms are derived from the objective functions described by the trained neural networks, which model various performance solutions. The multi-objective optimization (MOO) of performance indices is established by searching the Pareto-optimal frontier sets in the solution space. Consequently, the effectiveness of this method is validated by simulation. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The effect of the selective additions of hafnium (Hf) on the variation of creep life and microstructure of an experimental nickel base superalloy has been investigated. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) were utilized to predict the effect of Hf content on the creep rupture life at temperatures of 850-950 degrees C and showed that, with the addition of Hf, the creep life was prolonged. This effect was more pronounced at low stress than at high stress and was most noticeable with the first 0-0.6 wt% of Hf addition. Analysis of the correlation between microstructure and creep life of 0.4 wt% Hf doped alloy revealed that at low stresses the initiation and propagation of microcracks from MC carbides was retarded, and the beneficial effect of grain boundary strengthening on creep life was significant, although the tendency of appearance of gamma' rafting in 0.4 wt% Hf doped alloy is very close to that in Hf-free alloy. This was in agreement with above ANNs prediction. In addition, the relationship between the appearance of gamma' rafting and lattice misfit with regards to Hf content was discussed. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
CCR5 is the key receptor of HIV-1 virus entry into host cells and it becomes an attractive target for antiretroviral drug design. To date, six types of CCR5 antagonist were synthesized and evaluated. To search more potent bio-active compounds, non-linear support vector machine was used to construct the relationship models for 103 oximino-piperidino-piperidine CCR5 antagonists. Then, comparative molecular field analysis and comparative molecular similarity indices analysis models were constructed after alignment with their common substructure. Twenty-one structural diverse compounds, which were not included in the support vector machine, comparative molecular field analysis, and comparative molecular similarity indices analysis models, validated these models. The results show that these models possess good predictive ability. When comparing between support vector machine and 3D-quantitative structure activity relationship models, the results obtained from these two methods are compatible. However, 3D-quantitative structure activity relationship model is significantly better than support vector machine model and previous reported pharmacophore model. These models can help us to make quantitative prediction of their bio-activities before in vitro and in vivo stages.
The spectral characteristics of mangroves on the Beihai Coast of Guangxi, P. R. China are acquired on the basis of spectral data from field measurements. Following this, the 3-layer reverse-conversing neural networks (NN) classification technology is used to analyze the Landsat TM5 image obtained on January 8, 2003. It is detailed enough to facilitate the introduction of the algorithm principle and trains project of the neural network. Neural network algorithms have characteristics including large-scale data handling and distributing information storage. This research firstly analyzes the necessity and complexity of this translation system, and then introduces the strong points of the neural network. Processing mangrove landscape characteristics by using neural network is an important innovation, with great theoretical and practical significance. This kind of neural network can greatly improve the classification accuracy. The spatial resolution of Landsat TM5 is high enough to facilitate the research, and the false color composite from 3-, 4-, and 5-bands has a clear boundary and provides a significant quantity of information and effective images. On the basis of a field survey, the exported layers are defined as mangrove, vegetation, bare land, wetlands and shrimp pool. TM satellite images are applied to false color composites by using 3-, 4-, and 5-bands, and then a supervised classification model is used to classify the image. The processing method of hyper-spectrum remote sensing allows the spectral characteristics of the mangrove to be determined, and integrates the result with the NN classification for the false color composite by using 3-, 4-, and 5-bands. The network model consists of three layers, i.e., the input layer, the hidden layer, and the output layer. The input layer number of classification is defined as 3, and the hidden layers are defined as 5 according to the function operation. The control threshold is 0.9. The training ratio is 0.2. The maximum permit error is 0.08. The classification precision reaches 86.86%. This is higher than the precision of maximal parallel classification (50.79%) and the spectrum angle classification (75.39%). The results include the uniformity ratio (1.7789), the assembly ratio (0.6854), the dominance ratio ( - 1.5850), and the fragmentation ratio (0.0325).
In this paper, a four-stage Support vector machine (SVM) based multiagent ensemble learning approach is proposed for credit risk evaluation. In the First stage, the initial dataset is divided into two independent Subsets: training subset (in-sample data) and testing Subset (out-of-sample data) for training and verification purposes. In the second stage. different SVM learning paradigms with much dissimilarity are constructed as intelligent agents for credit risk evaluation In the third stage, multiple individual SVM agents are trained using training subsets and the corresponding evaluation results are also obtained In the final stage, all individual results produced by multiple SVM agents in the previous stage are aggregated into an ensemble result. In particular, the impact of the diversity of individual intelligent agents on the generalization performance of the SVM-based multiagent ensemble learning system is examined and analyzed For illustration. one corporate credit card application approval dataset is used to verify the effectiveness of the SVM-based multiagent ensemble learning system. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd All rights reserved.
Understanding how the dynamics of a neural network is shaped by the network structure and, consequently, how the network structure facilitates the functions implemented by the neural system is at the core of using mathematical models to elucidate brain functions. This study investigates the tracking dynamics of continuous attractor neural networks (CANNs). Due to the translational invariance of neuronal recurrent interactions, CANNs can hold a continuous family of stationary states. They form a continuous manifold in which the neural system is neutrally stable. We systematically explore how this property facilitates the tracking performance of a CANN, which is believed to have clear correspondence with brain functions. By using the wave functions of the quantum harmonic oscillator as the basis, we demonstrate how the dynamics of a CANN is decomposed into different motion modes, corresponding to distortions in the amplitude, position, width, or skewness of the network state. We then develop a perturbation approach that utilizes the dominating movement of the network's stationary states in the state space. This method allows us to approximate the network dynamics up to an arbitrary accuracy depending on the order of perturbation used. We quantify the distortions of a gaussian bump during tracking and study their effects on tracking performance. Results are obtained on the maximum speed for a moving stimulus to be trackable and the reaction time for the network to catch up with an abrupt change in the stimulus.
In this paper, an improved approach incorporating adaptive particle swarm optimization (APSO) and a priori information into feedforward neural networks for function approximation problem is proposed. It is well known that gradient-based learning algorithms such as backpropagation algorithm have good ability of local search, whereas PSO has good ability of global search. Therefore, in the improved approach, the APSO algorithm encoding the first-order derivative information of the approximated function is used to train network to near global minima. Then, with the connection weights produced by APSO, the network is trained with a modified gradient-based algorithm with magnified gradient function. The modified gradient-based algorithm can reduce input-to-output mapping sensitivity and lessen the chance of being trapped into local minima. By combining APSO with local search algorithm and considering a priori information, the improved approach has better approximation accuracy and convergence rate. Finally, simulation results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed approach.
We test four fast mean-field-type algorithms on Hopfield networks as an inverse Ising problem. The equilibrium behavior of Hopfield networks is simulated through Glauber dynamics. In the low-temperature regime, the simulated annealing technique is adopted. Although performances of these network reconstruction algorithms on the simulated network of spiking neurons are extensively studied recently, the analysis of Hopfield networks is lacking so far. For the Hopfield network, we found that, in the retrieval phase favored when the network wants to memory one of stored patterns, all the reconstruction algorithms fail to extract interactions within a desired accuracy, and the same failure occurs in the spin-glass phase where spurious minima show up, while in the paramagnetic phase, albeit unfavored during the retrieval dynamics, the algorithms work well to reconstruct the network itself. This implies that, as an inverse problem, the paramagnetic phase is conversely useful for reconstructing the network while the retrieval phase loses all the information about interactions in the network except for the case where only one pattern is stored. The performances of algorithms are studied with respect to the system size, memory load, and temperature; sample-to-sample fluctuations are also considered.
Based on orthogonal experimental results of porous Si3N4 ceramics by gel casting preparation, a three-layer back propagation (BP) artificial neural network (BP ANN) was developed for prediction of the flexural strength and porosity. The BP ANN is composed of three neurons in the input layer, two neurons in the output layer and six neurons the hidden layer. This study demonstrates that the proposed neural network approach can predict the performances of porous Si3N4 ceramics by gel casting preparation to a high degree of accuracy, and the neural network is a very useful and accurate tool for performances analysis of porous Si3N4 ceramics. By the proposed neural network prediction and analysis, the results suggest that the porosity monotonically decreases with the increase of solid loading, flexural strength is low when solid loading was too low or too high, and flexural strength has an optimum value.
The ultimate goal of Computational Neuroscience (CNS) is to use and develop mathematical models and approaches to elucidate brain functions. CNS is a young and highly multidisciplinary field. It heavily interacts with experimental neuroscience and such other research areas as artificial intelligence, robotics, computer vision, information science and machine learning. This paper reviews the history of CNS in China, its current status and the prospects for its future development. Examples of CNS research in China are also presented.
Measurements of surface radiation in China are too sparse to meet demand for scientific research and engineering applications. Moreover, the radiation data often include erroneous and questionable values though preliminary quality-check has been done before the data release. Therefore, quality control of radiation data is often a prerequisite for using these data. In this study, a set of quality-check procedures were implemented to control the quality of the solar radiation measurements at 97 stations in China. A hybrid model for estimating global solar radiation was then evaluated against the controlled data. The results show that the model can estimate the global radiation with accuracy of MBE less than 1.5 MJ m(-2) and RMSE less than 2.8 MJ m(-2) for daily radiation and RMSE less than 2.0 MJ m(-2) for monthly-mean daily radiation at individual stations over most of China except at a few stations where unsatisfactory estimates were possibly caused by severe air pollution or too dense clouds. The MBE averaged over all stations are about 0.7 MJ m(-2) and RMSE about 2.0 MJ m(-2) for daily radiation and RMSE about 1.3 MJ m(-2) for monthly-mean daily radiation. Finally, this model was used to fill data gaps and to expand solar radiation data set using routine meteorological station data in China. This data set would substantially contribute to some radiation-related scientific studies and engineering applications in China. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The leader-following consensus problem of higher order multi-agent systems is considered. In the system, the dynamics of each agent and the leader is a linear system. The control of each agent using local information is designed and detailed analysis of the leader-following consensus is presented for both fixed and switching interaction topologies, which describe the information exchange between the multi-agent systems. The design technique is based on algebraic graph theory, Riccati inequality and Lyapunov inequality. Simulations indicate the capabilities of the algorithms. (C) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Water vapor flux and carbon dioxide (CO2) exchange in croplands are crucial to water and carbon cycle research as well as to global warming evaluation. In this study, a standard three-layer feed-forward back propagation neural network technique associated with the Bayesian technique of automatic relevance determination (ARD) was employed to investigate water vapor and CO2 exchange between the canopy of summer maize and atmosphere in responses to variations of environmental and physiological factors. These factors, namely the photosynthetically active radiation (PAR), air temperature (T), vapor pressure deficient (VPD), leaf-area index (LAI), soil water content in root zone (W), and friction velocity (U*), were used as inputs in neural network analysis. Results showed that PAR, VPD, T and LAI were the primary factors regulating both water vapor and CO2 fluxes with VPD and W more critical to water vapor flux and PAR and T more crucial to CO2 exchange. Furthermore, two time variables "day of the year (DOY)" and "time of the day (TOD)" could also improve the simulation results of neural network analysis. The important factors identified by the neural network technique used in this study were in the order of PAR > T > VPD > LAI > U* > TOD for water vapor flux and in the order of VPD > W > LAI > T > PAR > DOY for CO2 exchange. This study suggests that neural network technique associated with ARD could be a useful tool for identifying important factors regulating water vapor and CO2 fluxes in terrestrial ecosystem. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We introduce a new technique based on artificial neural networks which enable us to make accurate predictions for the spectral energy distributions (SEDs) of large samples of galaxies, at wavelengths ranging from the far-ultraviolet (UV) to the submillimetre (sub-mm) and radio. The neural net is trained to reproduce the SEDs predicted by a hybrid code comprised of the galform semi-analytical model of galaxy formation, which predicts the full star formation and galaxy merger histories, and the grasil spectro-photometric code, which carries out a self-consistent calculation of the SED, including absorption and emission of radiation by dust. Using a small number of galaxy properties predicted by galform, the method reproduces the luminosities of galaxies in the majority of cases to within 10 per cent of those computed directly using grasil. The method performs best in the sub-mm and reasonably well in the mid-infrared (IR) and far-UV. The luminosity error introduced by the method has negligible impact on predicted statistical distributions, such as luminosity functions or colour distributions of galaxies. We use the neural net to predict the overlap between galaxies selected in the rest-frame UV and in the observer-frame sub-mm at z = 2. We find that around half of the galaxies with a 850 mu m flux above 5 mJy should have optical magnitudes brighter than R(AB) < 25 mag. However, only 1 per cent of the galaxies selected in the rest-frame UV down to R(AB) < 25 mag should have 850 mu m fluxes brighter than 5 mJy. Our technique will allow the generation of wide-angle mock catalogues of galaxies selected at rest-frame UV or mid- and far-IR wavelengths.
There are two prominent features for place cells in rat hippocampus. The firing rate remarkably increases when rat enters the cell's place field and reaches a maximum around the center of place field, and it decreases when the animal approaches the end of the place field. Simultaneously the spikes gradually and monotonically advance to earlier phase relative to hippocampal theta rhythm as the rat traverses along the cell's place field, known as temporal coding. In this paper, we investigate whether two main characteristics of place cell firing are independent or not by mainly focusing on the generation mechanism of the unimodal tuning of firing rate by using a reduced CA1 two-compartment neuron model. Based on recent evidences, we hypothesize that the coupling of dendritic with the somatic compartment is not constant but dynamically regulated as the animal moves further along the place field, in contrast to previous two-compartment modeling. Simulations show that the regulable coupling is critically responsible for the generation of unimodal firing rate profile in place cells, independent of phase precession. Predictions of our model accord well with recent observations like occurrence of phase precession with very low as well as high firing rate (Huxter et al. Nature 425:828-832, 2003) and persistency of phase precession after transient silence of hippocampus activity (Zugaro et al. Nat Neurosci 8:67-71, 2005.
This paper focuses on the problem of the self-calibration of a stereo rig and the visual control method for 3-DOF approach movements of a robot. A new measurement model for the stereo rig fixed beside the robot is developed based on the relative position of the end-effector and target. The stereo rig is linearly calibrated online with at least two steps of unspecific motions of the robot. A mixed visual control method is then proposed to guide the end-effector to approach the target, whose robustness and efficiency are improved by taking the advantage of both position-based and image-based visual control methods. Experimental results are provided to verify the effectiveness of the proposed methods.
This paper attempts to develop a reduction-based model updating technique for jacket offshore platform structure. A reduced model is used instead of the direct finite-element model of the real structure in order to circumvent such difficulties as huge degrees of freedom and incomplete experimental data that are usually civil engineers' trouble during the model updating. The whole process consists of three steps: reduction of FE model, the first model updating to minimize the reduction error, and the second model updating to minimize the modeling error of the reduced model and the real structure. According to the performance of jacket platforms, a local-rigidity assumption is employed to obtain the reduced model. The technique is applied in a downscale model of a four-legged offshore platform where its effectiveness is well proven. Furthermore, a comparison between the real structure and its numerical models in the following model validation shows that the updated models have good approximation to the real structure. Besides, some difficulties in the field of model updating are also discussed.
This work is concerned with consensus control for a class of leader-following multi-agent systems (MASs). The information that each agent received is corrupted by measurement noises. To reduce the impact of noises on consensus, time-varying consensus gains are adopted, based on which consensus protocols are designed. By using the tools of stochastic analysis and algebraic graph theory, a sufficient condition is obtained for the protocol to ensure strong mean square consensus under the fixed topologies. This condition is shown to be necessary and sufficient in the noise-free case. Furthermore, by using a common Lyapunov function, the result is extended to the switching topology case.
Robust non-intrusive eye location plays an important role in vision-based man-machine interaction. A modified Hausdorff distance based measure to localize the eyes is proposed, which could tolerate various changes in eye pose, shape, and scale. To eliminate the effects of the illumination variations, an 8-neighbour-based transformation of the gray images is proposed. The transformed image is less sensitive to illumination changes while preserves the appearance information of eyes. All the localized candidates of eyes are identified by back-propagation neural networks. Experiments demonstrate that the robust method for eye location is able to localize eyes with different eye sizes, shapes, and poses under different illuminations.
A visual control system is designed for a table tennis robot with five degrees of Freedom (DOFs). It consists of four parts such as ball sensing, trajectory predicting, motion planning, and motion control. A high-velocity stereo vision system with parallel architecture is developed to sense the motions of table tennis ball. The striking parameters including position, velocity, and time are predicted according to the predicted trajectory of the ball based on several measured positions. The motion computer receives the predicted striking parameters and performs motion planning for the robot. A motion control card embedded in the motion computer receives the planning results and controls the motions of the robot via the servo drivers for X and Y axes. A microprocessor is designed to produce pulses to control the motions of the rest three axes via the drivers. Experiments are well conducted to verify the effectiveness of the developed robot and control system.
A MDL-based control method for tele-robotic systems over internet is presented in this paper. Internet-based tele-robotic systems are characterized by the fact that the operator and the remote robotic system are connected by Internet. Since limited bandwidth, random time delay and other transmission problems deteriorate performance of tele-robotic systems severely, control strategies which can be used to settle transmission problems are expected. The obvious characteristic of the new method introduced in this paper is that control commands have a linguistic flavor, data transferred between operator and remote robot can be reduced accordingly. The framework presented in this paper has the potential of reducing operator's working pressure and enhancing the performance of the system. Furthermore, the existing motion description language modal is expanded to deal with the packet loss and disorder problem. The main contribution of this paper is the development of a novel framework for tele-robotics and its implementation in a real tele-manipulator system.
To monitor the running conditions and find out the damages of the power grids, the robotic technologies have been applied to conduct the inspection tasks of power transmission lines (PTLs) instead of worker or helicopter. Supported by the national high technology research and development program of China from 2002, the state key laboratory of robotics, Shenyang institute of automation, Chinese academy of sciences (SIACAS), has been focusing on the development of the inspection robot for 500kV extra high voltage (EHV) PTLs. Up to now, three generations of the inspection robot prototypes have been developed. In this paper, an overview of the research for these prototypes by SIACAS is given. Then, two latest developments which include a PTLs inspection robot and an insulator detection robot are introduced, respectively. The key technologies such as mechanism, control system, and operation modes, are described in detail. Field experimental results show that the robot prototypes can carry out the practical inspection tasks for 500kV EHV PTLs.
Solar radiation knowledge is important for the solar energy conversion and utilization. In this work, least squaressupport vector machine (LS- SVM) algorithms were applied to estimate the yearly and monthly average daily global solar radiation in China using the ordinary meteorological data and geographic parameters. The monthly climatic data from 101 radiation measurement stations were divided into one testing data sets, and two validation data sets. An efficient optimization algorithm known as the grid search are applied to tune parameters in LS- SVM model. The results indicated the superior performance and satisfactory prediction of LS- SVM model (R-2= 0.9832, RMSE= 0.7278 MJ center dot m(-2)center dot d(-1) for training data, and R-2> 0.948, RMSE < 1.2 MJ center dot m(-2)center dot d(-1) for validation data). The work finally took the LS- SVM model to map 10- minute grid of yearly and monthly average daily global solar radiation in China using climatic data of CRU- LC2.0. The spatial and temporal distributions of the atlases are generally similar with other researches, but show more advantages on spatial resolution and continuity.
FES cycling is a safe and easy way for the rehabilitation of spinal cord injury (SCI) patients. In order to design an control system for FES cycling, this paper presents a control strategy of the cycling induced by FES. The control system is developed based on artificial neural networks and consists of two layers: the outer layer controls the FES cycling model dynamics and generates desired torque; the inner layer controls multi muscle to generate the torque that tracks the desired torque. And the distribution of multi-channel FES stimulation intensities is optimized based on the energy and muscle fatigue minimization principles. The simulation results show that the control system designed in this paper is stable and robust to muscle fatigue. Finally, some remarks are given on the clinical experiments of this control strategy.
Spatial interpolation algorithms are vital to environmental monitoring systems, especially for the real-time monitoring systems of critical variables in converting the point measurements to spatial continuous surfaces. This paper describes the spatial interpolation of meteorological observations (air temperature as an example) using a feed-forward back-propagation neural network based on the environment-affecting factors. These model independent estimators were (1) meteorological stations' longitude, latitude, altitude; (2) Normalized Difference Vegetation Index; (3) slope and aspect. This is a first to consider all the factors for are temperature spatial interpolation when interpolating using a neural network. Especially the study area covers large region of complex terrain, which includes only 241 national meteorological stations over almost half-total area of China. However, the simulated results show that the model could provide reliable spatial estimations of monthly mean air temperature. Goodness of fit of model was very high (R > 0.95) and efficient.
Learning to program may be very difficult for students who have no previous programming experience because it requires students to possess a combination of theory, practice and problem solving skills. The topic of this paper is to describe the development of a flexible and interactive learning environment for learning programming based on intelligent agent after comparison of ITS and ILE, called Interactive System for Teaching Programming (ISTP).
In this paper, we consider the target aggregation of a multi-agent system consisting of multiple active leaders and second-order dynamical agents, where the target set spanned by these leaders is moving. Sufficient conditions are given in both stationary leader and moving leader case in the active leader case with switching topologies. With these conditions, all the mobile agents with second-order dynamics can asymptotically track the dynamical target set specified by multiple active leaders with bounded error.
Distributed robust adaptive control is investigated for a class of stochastic multi-agent systems with unknown time-varying structure parameters, unmodeled dynamics, external disturbances, and interactions among agents. The control goal is to make the states of all the agents converge to a desired function of the population state average (PSA). Due to the fact that only local information is available for each agent, the control is distributed. The key techniques adopted here to cope with the uncertainties are normalized projected least mean square algorithm, Nash certainty equivalence principle and certainty equivalence principle, which are used for estimating the unknown time-varying parameters and unknown PSA term, and designing adaptive control, respectively. Under some mild conditions, the stability of the closed-loop system, consistence of the PSA estimate, and robust Nash equilibrium property of the control laws are obtained. A numerical example is given to illustrate the results.
Catering service robot working in restaurants is integrated with autonomous mobile, multi-sensor data fusion, and multimodal human computer interaction techniques. Catering service robot can replace or partially take place of the restaurant staffs; it has good marketing effectiveness and potential profitable advantages.
a new approach called dynamic programming field for modeling the robot environments is presented and it's beneficial to the path planning. The dynamic programming field, which is approximated by Neuro-Dynamic Programming, records environmental information through a neural network and can be used to compute the approximate optimal cost between any two points. Based on the dynamic programming field, the path planning combines the optimization of global planning and the real-time of local planning. Simulation results show the validity of the proposed approach.
A novel localization algorithm with low-cost sensors for cleaning robots is presented in this paper, which includes fusing the data of encoders and an electronic compass to estimate the posture state of the robot by using Kalman filter. It judges the confidence of the data of the electronic compass with magnetic field intensity; judges the confidence of data of odometer by the information of slippage and collision. A coverage strategy and map construction methods with the localization algorithm are also introduced. Experimental results show that the proposed algorithm can achieve adequate localization precise enough for complete coverage and the cleaning robots have a superior coverage ratio with the coverage strategy.
This paper presents an overview of the Central Pattern Generator (CPG) based control models as well as their applications to various multi-joint or multi-DOF robots. The motivation is to provide a relevant and practical guide to the existing literature for engineers with an interest in the emerging CPG-based biocybernetics approach. The CPGs function as a biological neural network with the great capability of producing stable rhythmic patterns that are robust against external perturbations. Some conventional models to emulate CPG network are firstly reviewed, and their merits and faults are analyzed. Combined the current stage of CPG-based locomotion control with its critical issues, a two-phase control architecture is formed to accomplish autonomous motions in dynamic environments. The developing prospect of the CPG-based control is finally outlined in the context of bio-robotics.
In this paper, a Novel Cellular Neural Network (CNN) entitled the shortest path CNN (SP-CNN) is proposed. It has a good performance in path planning for mobile robots because of its network structure and neural dynamics. The proposed method not only can generate the best solution in static environments in real time but also generate the optional solution in dynamic environments or in unknown environments according to its currently acquired navigation map. Extensive simulations about the above mentioned aspects demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
This paper describes the control of a three-fingered prosthetic dexterous hand developed by the State Key Robotics Laboratory at the Shenyang Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Science, A distributed control system is used to control the motion of this multi-finger hand. Preliminary experiment results show that the dexterity of the hand meets the design expectation and that the hand is able to perform a broad number of tasks with many gestures.
Global solar radiation is need knowledge for solar energy system design. In this work, the artificial neural networks (ANN) were applied to estimate the daily global solar radiation in China. Eight-year meteorological data from ten weather stations, which located at very different locations and climate zone, was randomly split into training, validation and test set with the proportion of 2:1:1. Daily Meteorological data (sunshine duration, air temperature, rainfall, relative humidity, and atmospheric pressure), geographical parameters (latitude, longitude, and altitude), and day of year (DOY) were used in the input layer of the ANN models. Twelve combinations of input variables were considered and the performance of the models was evaluated. The ANN model with all input variables achieve the best results (R-2=0.932; RMSE=1.915 MJ.m(-2).d(-1)). Compared to the most widely used regression model, Angstrom formula, ANN models are more accuracy. The ANN model was applied to forecast the daily solar radiation at 12 independent stations and the performance was fairly good (R-2>0.85; RMSE<3.4 MJ.m(-2).d(-1)). Results indicated that the ANN models show promising in daily global solar radiation estimation at the places where the radiation data is missing or not available
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) and Wireless Sensor Network (WSN) are two important components of ubiquitous computing. They have different advantages and application areas. The RFID sensor network, which integrates RFID into WSN, has both the advantage of RFID and WSN. In this paper, three common and one new compound network architectures are described in detail. Targeting RFID sensor network systems, which use distribute smart node network architecture and applies Basic Frame Slot Aloha (BFSA) as the MAC protocol for smart node to reading tags, the energy model and energy consumption of the smart node are proposed and analyzed. We use quantitative methodology to evaluate the energy consumption of a smart node, as well as give our computing formula to evaluate the lifetime of the smart node, and its feasibility is discussed thoroughly.
This paper applies prior knowledge - monotonicity and convexity - to a Single-Input-Single-Output (SISO) unnormalized interval type-2 Takagi-Sugeno-Kang (TSK) Fuzzy Logic System (FLS). Sufficient conditions are provided to guarantee its monotonicity and convexity with respect to its input, respectively. The derived monotonic conditions focus on a zeroth-order TSK fuzzy model. Also, the corresponding proofs for the convex conditions of both the zeroth-order and first-order TSK fuzzy models are given, respectively. For the zeroth-order fuzzy systems, simulation examples demonstrate the validity of the theorems.
Proposed by Chinese system scientists in 1990, meta-synthesis approach is a system methodology to tackle complex system problems. Till today, this approach still lacks well understanding at home and abroad which then blocks its development. This paper addresses MSA by DSS, soft OR methods or the relevant computerized support so as to explain the working philosophy of the approach and provide help to apply the approach to practical problem solving or the construction of its practicing platform, i.e. Hall for Workshop of Meta-synthetic Engineering (HWMSE) by adopting available methods or developing new technologies. The latter part briefly addresses two technologies, CorMap and iView, which conduct a computing way to support qualitative meta-synthesis for hypothesis generation for further verification and validation. Four typical applications are given.
Leaf area index (LAI) is an essential parameter for monitoring crop growth dynamic. An algorithm, which is based on physical model and neural networks to derive crop LAI from MODIS land surface reflectance, is presented. This algorithm utilizes the directional reflectances instead of the BRDF normalized data to avoid complex BRDF normalization and the error from it. The estimated LAI is compared with existing LAI products. Results show that it is consistent with MODIS (RMSE = 0.4994) and CYCLOPES (RMSE = 0.6658) LAI products in temporal and spatial patterns. The algorithm is validated against ground measurements of annual crop LAI in 2004 in Hengshui, China. The neural network derived LAI could represent the spatial pattern of the field LAI. However, all these LAI products are lower than field measurements. It would be suggested that the physical model should be modified to adapt to the dense crop in Northern China.
It is important to study on environmental monitoring and control of greenhouse and improve agriculture facilities. The mathematics model of environment temperature is established based on the fuzzy control theory which deals with the problems of traditional greenhouse, such as outdated management, high cost, low-level, etc. automatically. The system detects the environment parameters based on PCI-DAQ data acquisition system, and adjusts the air blower rotate speed by frequency converter. It is used to run in real environment, the original environment temperature is 30 degrees C, the given value is 27 degrees C, and the range is within +/- 0.5 degrees C. The system controls the temperature parameter real-timely based on fuzzy control technology. Compared with the traditional PM control system, it can increase the stability of system, avoid the subjectivity and random of manual operation, and improve precision and efficiency of the whole system. The system has high practical value and using prospect since it meets the request of scientific producing and automatic management of greenhouse.
In recent years, e-learning as a learning system is very popular. But the current e-learning systems cannot instruct students effectively since they do not consider the emotional state in the context of instruction. The emergence of the theory about "Affective computing" can solve this question. It can make the computer's intelligence no longer be a pure cognitive one. In this paper, we construct an emotional intelligent e-learning system based on "Affective computing". A dimensional model is put forward to recognize and analyze the student's emotion state and a virtual teacher's avatar is offered to regulate student's learning psychology with consideration of teaching style based on his personality trait. A "man-to-man" learning environment is built to simulate the traditional classroom's pedagogy in the system.
This paper proposes a new algorithm that employs Adaptive Dynamic Programming(ADP) to solve the distributed control problem of urban traffic with an infinite horizon. Urban traffic congestions lead to a lot of time consumption and exhaust emissions. So alleviating congested situation will have a good impact on both economy and environment. The signal control at urban intersections is an effective and most important way to reduce the traffic jams and collisions. A lot of control theories including traditional mathematical ways and modern artificial intelligent ways have been exploited. ADP is an effective and amiable intelligent control method. We proposed an algorithm to adjust the signal time plan at urban traffic intersections based on ADP theory. Simulations are taken under a microscopic traffic simulation software, TSIS(Traffic Software Integrated System). Several criteria named MOEs(Measures of Effectiveness) are collected to compare with the widely used pre-timed control, actuated control, also with a machine learning method Q-learning control. Results show that ADP control method have a better adaptability to the various traffic simulating real traffic flows.
In this paper, an optimal control scheme for a class of non-affine nonlinear systems with time-delays in state and control variables is developed using a new iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm. By introducing delay matrix functions, the explicit expression of optimal control is solved using the dynamic programming theory and the optimal control can iteratively be solved using the present technique. Convergence analysis is presented to show the performance index function to reach the optimum by the present method. Neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function, compute the optimal control policy, solve delay matrix functions and model the nonlinear system, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the iterative ADP algorithm. A simulation example is given to demonstrate the validity of the present optimal control scheme.
Most of current e-learning systems are not taking into account the learner's learning style. Although the Adaptive e-learning system pay attention to the learning style, the result is not better than expectation. The main reason is the Adaptive e-learning system force learners to fill in tedious questionnaires so that identify one's learning style. The method of identify the learners' learning style by monitoring the learners' browse behaviors has been discussed and the behaviors needed to monitor for each learning style have been found in this paper.
We propose the technology of full life-cycle automatic animation generation of Chinese traditional architecture and summarize a software system that implements this technology. Starting from a pseudo-natural language description of the architecture, until the generation of a 3D animation demonstrating the construction of this building, the whole process is performed automatically step by step, including; reasoning of the construction sequence, computation of the size and position of each piece of wood, generation of a qualitative animation specification, and generation of a quantitative animation specification. As a result, the software system realizes more than 180 architectures in three main types of Chinese traditional timber structures, thirteen types of Dougong, and six types of Chinese pagodas. In addition to standard architectures, our technology can, also be applied to generate animations for real-world buildings. Potential applications of such technology include demonstration systems in museums where the visitor describes what kind of building he wants to see and the system can accordingly construct the building in real time. We use artificial intelligence techniques including knowledge representation and reasoning for the Semantic Web to support the automation.
In this paper, we consider the distributed control of a group of autonomous agents to track the convex hull specified by multiple moving leaders maybe with unmeasurable velocities. Directed interconnection topologies of the follower agents are investigated for the set input-to-state stability (SISS) and set integral input-to-state stability (SiISS), and connectivity-based necessary and sufficient conditions are obtained. Then the tracking errors can be estimated between the agents with nonlinear neighbor-based coordination rules and the polytope spanned by the leaders with the help of SISS and SiISS.
This paper is concerned with decentralized tracking-type games for large population multi-agent systems. The individual dynamics are described by stochastic discrete-time auto-regressive models with exogenous inputs (ARX models), and coupled by terms of the unknown population state average (PSA) with unknown coupling strength. A two-level decentralized adaptive control law is designed. On the high level, the PSA is estimated based on Nash certainty equivalence (NCE) principle. On the low level, the coupling strength is identified based on decentralized least squares algorithms and the estimate of PSA. The decentralized control law is constructed by combining NCE principle and certainty equivalence principle. By probability limit theory, under mild conditions, it is shown that: (a) the closed-loop system is stable almost surely; (b) as the number of agents increases to infinity, the estimates of both PSA and the coupling strength are asymptotically strongly consistent and the decentralized control law is an almost sure asymptotic Nash-equilibrium.
In this paper, we consider the multi-leader following problem of a second-order multi-agent system with random switching topologies. This problem can also be viewed as a tracking problem of a target set specified multiple leaders. The interaction topology between agents is described by an irreducible Markov chain. A necessary and sufficient condition is obtained to make all the mobile agents almost surely asymptotically converge to the static convex target set determined by multiple leaders. Moreover, results are also given for the moving target set with independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) random switching, too.
Remote sensing images classification method can be divided into supervised classification and unsupervised classification according to whether there is prior knowledge. Supervised classification is a machine learning procedure for deducing a function from training data; unsupervised classification is a kind of classification which no training sample is available and subdivision of the feature space is achieved by identifying natural groupings present in the images values. As a branch of swarm intelligence, ant colony optimization algorithm has self-organization, adaptation, positive feedback and other intelligent advantages. In this paper, ant colony optimization algorithm is tentatively introduced into unsupervised classification of remote sensing images. A series of experiments are performed with remote sensing data. Comparing with the K-mean and the ISODATA clustering algorithm, the experiment result proves that artificial ant colony optimization algorithm provides a more effective approach to remote sensing images classification.
The liquidity risk is one of the most important adjustable parameters of the portfolio selection. This paper proposes an improved model considering the liquidity risk and market risk, which makes it more suitable for the actual situation. In the improved model we take into account the risk appetite of investors and other psychological factors. To solve the improved portfolio optimization model with complex constraints, we present a comparative study for three swarm intelligence methods namely genetic algorithm (GA), bacterial foraging optimization (BFO) and particle swarm optimization (PS0). The primary results demonstrate their effectiveness and efficiency.
In this paper, a novel and efficient method for plant species identification based on radial basis probabilistic neural networks ensemble classifier (RBPNNE) was proposed. The RBPNNE consists of several different independent neural networks trained by different feature domains of the original images. The final classification results represent a combined response of the individual networks. A plant leaf image database build by ourselves is exploited to test our approach. The experimental results show that the RBPNNC achieves higher recognition accuracy and better classification efficiency than single feature domain.
A resource limited immune approach (RLIA) was developed to evolve architecture and in connection weights of multilayer neural networks Then, with Back-Propagation (BP) algorithm, the appropriate connection weights can be found The RLIA-BP classifier, which is derived from hybrid algorithm mentioned above, is demonstrated on SPOT multi-spectral image data. vowel data and Ins data effectively The simulation results demonstrate that RLIA-BP classifier possesses better performance comparing with Bayes maximum-likelihood classifier, k-nearest neighbor classifier (k-NN). BP neural network (BP-MLP) classifier and Resource limited artificial immune classifier (AIRS) in pattern classification
Most of the recent literature on complexity measures in textual case-based reasoning examined alignment between problem space and solution space, which used to be an issue of formulating CBR hypothesis. However, none of existing complexity measures could dispel the specter of predefined class label that does not appear in public textual datasets available, or clarify the correctness of the proposed solutions in the retrieved cases most similar to a target problem. This paper presented a novel alignment measure to circumvent these difficulties by calculating rank correlation between most similar case rankings in problem space and most similar case rankings in solution space. We also examined how to utilize existing alignment measures for textual case retrieval and textual case base maintenance. Empirical evaluation on Aviation Investigation Reports from Transportation Safety Board of Canada showed that rank correlation alignment measure might become a promising method for case-based non-classification systems.
Particle filtering is an effective sequential Monte Carlo approach to solve the recursive Bayesian filtering problem in non-linear and non-Gaussian systems. The algorithm is based on importance sampling. However, in the literature, the proper choice of the proposal distribution for importance sampling remains a tough task and has not been resolved yet. Inspired by the animal swarm intelligence in the evolutionary computing, we propose a swarm intelligence based particle filter algorithm. Unlike the independent particles in the conventional particle filter, the particles in our algorithm cooperate with each other and evolve according to the cognitive effect and social effect in analogy with the cooperative and social aspects of animal populations. Furthermore, the theoretical analysis shows that our algorithm is essentially a conventional particle filter with a hierarchial importance sampling process which is guided by the swarm intelligence extracted from the particle configuration, and thus greatly overcome the sample impoverishment problem suffered by particle filters. We compare the proposed approach with several nonlinear filters in the following tasks: state estimation, and visual tracking. The experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and promise of our approach.
This paper presents a novel optimization model called hierarchical swarm optimization (HSO), which simulates the natural hierarchical complex system from where more complex intelligence can emerge for complex problems solving. This proposed model is intended to suggest ways that the performance of HSO-based algorithms on complex optimization problems can be significantly improved. This performance improvement is obtained by constructing the HSO hierarchies, which means that an agent in a higher level swarm can be composed of swarms of other agents from lower level and different swarms of different levels evolve on different spatiotemporal scale. A novel optimization algorithm (named (PSO)-O-2), based on the HSO model, is instantiated and tested to illustrate the ideas of HSO model clearly. Experiments were conducted on a set of 17 benchmark optimization problems including both continuous and discrete cases. The results demonstrate remarkable performance of the (PSO)-O-2 algorithm on all chosen benchmark functions when compared to several successful swarm intelligence and evolutionary algorithms.
For continuous observation at locations that are inhospitable for humans, the desirability of autonomous observatories is self evident. PLATO, the 'PLATeau Observatory' was designed to host an easily configurable instrument suite in the extremely cold conditions on the Antarctic plateau, and can provide up to 1 kW of power for the instruments. Powered by jet fuel and the Sun, PLATO and its instruments have been taking nearly uninterrupted astronomical science and site-testing data at Dome A, the coldest, highest and driest location(1) on the Antarctic Plateau, since their deployment by the 24th Chinese expedition team in January 2008. At the time of writing, PLATO has delivered a total uptime of 730 days. Following a servicing mission by the 25th Chinese expedition team in 2008-9, PLATO has achieved 100% up-time (520 days) and has been in continuous contact with the rest of the world via its Iridium satellite modems. This paper discusses the performance of the observatory itself, assesses the sources of energy and dissects how the energy is divided between the core observatory functions of instrument power, heating, control and communication.
In this paper, a classification method named nearest subspace method is applied for credit risk evaluation. Virtually credit risk evaluation is a very typical classification problem to identify "good" and "bad" creditors. Currently some machine learning technologies, such as support vector machine (SVM), have been discussed widely in credit risk evaluation. But there are many effective classification methods in pattern recognition and artificial intelligence have not been tested for credit evaluation. This paper presents to use nearest subspace classification method, a successful face recognition method, for credit evaluation. The nearest subspace credit evaluation method use the subspaces spanned by the creditors in same class to extend the training set, and the Euclidean distance from a test creditor to the subspace is taken as the similarity measure for classification, then the test creditor belongs to the class of nearest subspace. Experiments on real world credit dataset show that the nearest subspace credit risk evaluation method is a competitive method. (C) 2010 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
Text detection and recognition for images in multimedia messaging service is a very important task. Since Chinese characters are composed of four kinds of strokes, i.e., horizontal line, top-down vertical line, left-downward slope line and short pausing stroke, we present Gabor filters with scale and direction varied to describe the strokes of Chinese characters for candidate text area extraction. By establishing four sub-neural networks to learn the texture of text area, the learnt classifiers are used to detect candidate text areas. Experimental results show that the proposed approach can improve the accuracy of text detection and the recognition rate of images in multimedia messaging service.
The mobile robots often perform the dangerous missions such as planetary exploration, reconnaissance, anti-terrorism, rescue, and so on. So it is required that the robots should be able to move in the complex and unpredictable environment where the ground might be soft and hard, even and uneven. To access to such terrains, a novel robot (NEZA-I) with the self-adaptive mobile mechanism is proposed and developed. It consists of a control system unit and two symmetric transformable wheel-track (TWT) units. Each TWT unit is driven only by one servo motor, and can efficiently move over rough terrain by changing the locomotion mode and transforming the track configuration. It means that the mobile mechanism of NEZA-I has self-adaptability to the irregular environment. The paper proposes the design concept of NEZA-I, presents the structure and the drive system of NEZA-I, and describes the self-adaptive principle of the mobile mechanism to the rough terrains. The locomotion mode and posture of the mobile mechanism is analyzed by the means of simulation. Finally, basic experiments verify the mobility of NEZA-I.
The developments in mobile robotics have increasingly played an important role in the inspection and maintenance work of Power Transmission Lines (PTLs). This paper presents the research and development of the inspection robots for 500kV PTLs in Shenyang Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences (SIACAS). An overview of the research work and the development of an inspection robot AApe-B, are introduced, respectively. The AApe-B can run on the Overhead Ground Wires (OGWs) and navigate different types of obstacles in remote and locally autonomous control mode. A novel dual-wheel-arm hybrid mechanism with the excellent locomotion and obstacle-navigation performance is designed, and obstacle navigation process is analyzed. An embedded control system which can withstand the strong electromagnetic interference has been developed. A lot of field experiments have been carried out, and the experimental results have shown that the inspection robot can reliably work during the 500kV Extra High Voltage (EHV) electromagnetic environment and possess the primary ability to implement the inspection task of the 500kV PTLs.
The promising electric vehicle (EV) technology is a direction to tackle the global non-renewable energy problem. However, the efficiency to use the electric energy still needs deliberate research. Traditional EV has no choice to manage its energy flow, because it has only one traction motor. With the robotic research in 4 wheel independent drive (4WID), the driving task of the single traction motor can be shared by 4 independent in-wheel motors. By exploring the motor efficiency map, we propose the energy management strategy based on optimal driving torque distribution(ODTD). The total input power of the 4 motors can be minimized while the driving performance is still maintained, and electric energy consumption can be reduced compared with traditional single motor driving EV. Simulation results validate the proposed strategy. The energy management strategy can also be applied to multi-driving-wheel mobile robots.
This paper presents an efficient kinematical solution to a multi-robot system with serial and parallel mechanisms. JL-I is a reconfigurable robot featuring active spherical joints formed by serial and parallel mechanisms endowing the robotic system with the ability of changing shapes in three dimensions. The active joint here can combine the advantages of the high rigidity of a parallel mechanism and the extended workspace of a serial mechanism. However, the kinematic analysis of the serial and parallel mechanism is always the bottleneck in designing a robot and control realization. In order to deal with this problem, the whole kinematical analysis is organized in the sequence from the direct mechanical analysis related to the serial and parallel mechanism over the numerical solutions to the simplified kinematics expression. The latest results obtained demonstrate that the deduced closure-form solution is time efficient and easy to implement while offering a satisfactory motion performance in on-site experiments.
This paper proposes a path and motion planning algorithm for a tree climbing problem. This problem is challenging as the shape of tree is complex and irregular. To our best knowledge, this is the first paper dealing with the path planning problem on natural tree environment. Different from conventional motion planning approach that requires constructing a complex configuration space, this paper divides the planning problem into two parts, i.e., path and motion planning problem so as to reduce the dimension of the problem. An intuitive method to represent a climbing space is proposed that highly simplifies the path planning problem. With the use of a dynamic programming algorithm, an optimal path to reach a target position can be acquired in linear time. In addition, an efficient motion planning algorithm for a tree climbing robot named TreeBot is developed to make TreeBot follow the planned path.
For controlling the prosthetic hand by only electroencephalogram (EEG), it has become the hot spot in robotics research to set up a direct communication and control channel between human brain and prosthetic hand. In this paper, the EEG signal is analyzed based on multi-complicated hand activities. And then, two methods of EEG pattern recognition are investigated, a neural prosthesis hand system driven by BCI is set up, which can complete four kinds of actions (arm's free state, arm movement, hand crawl, hand open). Through several times of off-line and on-line experiments, the result shows that the neural prosthesis hand system driven by BCI is reasonable and feasible, the C-support vector classifiers-based method is better than BP neural network on the EEG pattern recognition for multi-complicated hand activities.
Purpose - Active contour can describe target's silhouette accurately and has been widely used in image segmentation and target tracking. Its main drawback is huge computation that is still not well resolved. The purpose of this paper is to optimize the evolving path of active contour, to reduce the computation cost and to make the evolution effectively.
CAPTCHAs are widespread security measures on the World Wide Web that prevent automated programs from massive access. To overcome this obstacle attackers generally utilize artificial intelligence technology, which is not only complicated but also not adaptive enough. This paper addresses on the issue of how to defeat complex CAPTCHAs with a social engineering method named CAPTCHA Phishing instead of AI techniques. We investigated each step of this attack in detail and proposed the most effective way to attack. Then we did experiment with real Internet web sites and obtained a positive results. The countermeasures to prevent this attack are also discussed.
The global expansion of the Web brings the global computing; and the increasing number of problems with increasing complexity & sophistication also makes collaboration desirable. In this paper, we presented a semantics-based framework for collaborative problem solving in agent grid by coupling joint intention and dynamic description logics (DDL), our previous work to extend description logics (DL) with a dynamic dimension to model the dynamic world. Capabilities and attitudes of agents were captured by actions, and formulas in DDL respectively. Thus representation components in our framework were conferred with well-defined semantics by relating them to some domain ontologies. We could employ reasoning on actions in DDL to help agents to find proper colleagues when collaboration is necessary, and the philosophy underlying Joint Intention to bind their actions to achieve their overall goal. The main strengths of our framework include: i) finding probably helpful agents in a semantically accurate way due to the employment of semantic information; ii) going much closer to industrial implementations while retaining the main express power of classical joint intention model.
Commonsense acquisition is one of the most important and challenging topics in Artificial Intelligence. Comparative commonsense, such as "In general, a man is stronger than a woman", denotes that one entity has a property or quality greater or less in extent than that of another. This paper presents an automatic method for acquiring comparative commonsense from the World Wide Web. We firstly extract potential comparative statements from related texts based on multiple lexico-syntactic patterns. Then, we assess the candidates using Web-scale statistical features. To evaluate this approach, we use three measures: coverage of the web corpora, precision and recall which achieved 79.2%, 76.4% and 83.3%, respectively in our experiments. And the experimental results show that this approach profits significantly when the semantic similarity relationships are involved in the commonsense assessment.
This paper gives a targets pursuit approach for multi-robot system in a multi-region workspace with the help of hybrid wireless sensor networks, which comprises static sensor nodes and mobile sensor nodes. The layout of hybrid wireless sensor networks are firstly presented, and the static nodes network adopts multi-target tracking based on dynamic cluster with the constraints of K-level and communication cost. Considering the hollow zones and multiple-region division, cooperative target tracking with both static and mobile sensor nodes as well as multi-region joint target tracking is designed. Based on the obtained targets information, the pursuit task is executed by the robots, which is verified by the simulations.
A fast, reliable mapping and path planning method is essential to autonomous mobile robots. Popular global algorithms usually adopt occupancy gird maps (OGM) or a topological map (TM) to generate a practicable path. In this paper, we present a new path planning algorithm based on the image thinning process and the extraction of key nodes. It requires much less time and memory compared with the OGM method for generating a path, and much simpler, more robust than the TM, while preserving advantages of both. With the new algorithm, a collision-free path could be obtained in real time. Results from simulation experiments validate its efficiency and reliability.
This study attempts to estimate the current stage of the permafrost environment in the Muli coal mining area, an opencast mining site in the Qinghai-Tibet plateau, China. The estimation is done by regarding this site's permafrost environment as a system which was divided into three subsystems consisting of permafrost freeze-thaw erosion sensibility, permafrost thermal stability, and permafrost ecological fragility. The subsystems were characterised with their influencing indicators, each of which was assigned with a weight according to analytic hierarchy process. The relationship between these indictors is established using an environmental evaluation model based on grey system theory. The evaluated results show that currently the normalised grey relation projection values (GRPV) of permafrost freezing-thawing erosion sensibility, permafrost thermal stability, permafrost ecological fragility and permafrost environment are 0.58 (general situation), 0.47 (bad situation), 0.63 (general situation) and 0.56 (general situation), respectively. These values imply that the permafrost environment has been deteriorated to a certain degree by human activities and potentially could be further degraded. However, at this degree, a new equilibrium could be achieved if the current environmental degradation ratio is held and if effective treatments are constructed against further damages.
In this study, a wide range of leaf nitrogen concentration levels was established in field-grown rice with the application of three fertilizer levels. Hyperspectral reflectance data of the rice canopy through rice whole growth stages were acquired over the 350 nm to 2500 nm range. Comparisons of prediction power of two statistical methods (linear regression technique (LR) and artificial neural network (ANN)), for rice N estimation (nitrogen concentration, mg nitrogen g(-1) leaf dry weight) were performed using two different input variables (nitrogen sensitive hyperspectral reflectance and principal component scores). The results indicted very good agreement between the observed and the predicted N with all model methods, which was especially true for the PC-ANN model (artificial neural network based on principal component scores), with an RMSE 0.347 and REP 13.14%. Compared to the LR algorithm, the ANN increased accuracy by lowering the RMSE by 17.6% and 25.8% for models based on spectral reflectance and PCs, respectively.
A novel formation control and switching approach for multiple robots in uncertain environments is proposed in this paper. A formation parameter matrix is adopted to establish the relative relationship among the robots, and the formation control problem is converted into the tracking problem of the-off-axis point of the follower to the-off-axis point on the virtual robot, which has the same orientation as that of the leader and maintains a desired relative distance and desired observation angle with respect to the leader. The tracking control law is then designed. An obstacle avoidance strategy combined with formation switching is proposed to avoid collisions in the presence of obstacles, and a fault tolerance strategy is given to deal with the situations when some robots are broken. Simulation results are given to demonstrate the validity of the proposed approach.
Computer-based geometry systems have been widely used for teaching and learning, but largely based on mouse-and-keyboard interaction, these systems usually require users to draw figures by following strict task structures defined by menus, buttons, and mouse and keyboard actions. Pen-based designs offer a more natural way to develop geometry theorem proofs with hand-drawn figures and scripts. This paper describes a pen-based geometry theorem proving system that can effectively recognize hand-drawn figures and hand-written proof scripts, and accurately establish the correspondence between geometric components and proof steps. Our system provides dynamic and intelligent visual assistance to help users understand the process of proving and allows users to manipulate geometric components and proof scripts based on structures rather than strokes. The results from evaluation study show that our system is well perceived and users have high satisfaction with the accuracy of sketch recognition, the effectiveness of visual hints, and the efficiency of structure-based manipulation.
Case-based reasoning (CBR) method has been widely used to study geographical problems during the past two decades. However it is still not perfect particularly when employed to solve complicated geographical problems. Urgently needed improvement includes development of geographic data representation modeling and design of algorithm for spatial similarity computation and reasoning. This paper reports an improved CBR-based method for studying the spatially and temporally complex Mesoscale Ocean Eddies (MOEs). After summarizes the basic advantages and challenges of current existing quantitative methods, the paper first proposes that CBR approach, with support of GIS, can be employed to study variation of MOEs. Representation model was constructed to describe the case, i.e., MOEs. This paper then provides an algorithm to retrieve the inherent spatial relationships among cases, as well as a CBR similarity reasoning algorithm to predict change of MOEs. The method was finally tested by examining the MOE in the South China Sea and yields an average estimation accuracy of 80%. In summary, the CBR-based approach proposed in this study provides an effective and explicit solution to quantitatively analyze and predict the change of MOEs.
The asymptotical mean-square stability analysis problem is considered for a class of Cohen-Grossberg neural networks (CGNNs) with random delay. The evolution of the delay is modeled by a continuous-time homogeneous Markov process with a finite number of states. The main purpose of this paper is to establish easily verifiable conditions under which the random delayed Cohen-Grossberg neural network is asymptotical mean-square stability. By employing Lyapunov-Krasovskii functionals and conducting stochastic analysis, a linear matrix inequality (LMI) approach is developed to derive the criteria for the asymptotical mean-square stability, which can be readily checked by using some standard numerical packages such as the Matlab LMI Toolbox. A numerical example is exploited to show the usefulness of the derived LMI-based stability conditions.
Virtual enterprise (VE) has to manage its risk effectively in order to guarantee the profit. However, restricting the risk in a VE to the acceptable level is considered difficult due to the agility and diversity of its distributed characteristics. First, in this paper, an optimization model for VE risk management based on distributed decision making model is introduced. This optimization model has two levels, namely, the topmodel and the base model, which describe the decision processes of the owner and the partners of the VE, respectively. In order to solve the proposed model effectively, this work then applies two powerful artificial intelligence optimization techniques known as evolutionary algorithms (EA) and swarm intelligence (SI). Experiments present comparative studies on the VE risk management problem for one EA and three state-of-the-art SI algorithms. All of the algorithms are evaluated against a test scenario, in which the VE is constructed by one owner and different partners. The simulation results show that the PS(2)O algorithm, which is a recently developed SI paradigm simulating symbiotic coevolution behavior in nature, obtains the superior solution for VE risk management problem than the other algorithms in terms of optimization accuracy and computation robustness.
In order to assist designer in color planning during product development, a novel synthesized evaluation method is presented to evaluate color-combination schemes of multi-working modes products (MMPs). The proposed evaluation method considers color-combination images in different working modes as evaluating attributes, to which the corresponding weights are assigned for synthesized evaluation. Then a mathematical model is developed to search for optimal color-combination schemes of MMP based on the proposed evaluation method and two powerful search techniques known as Evolution Algorithms (EAs) and Swarm Intelligence (SI). In the experiments, we present a comparative study for two EAs, namely, Genetic Algorithm (GA) and Difference Evolution (DE), and one SI algorithm, namely, Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), on searching for color-combination schemes of MMP problem. All of the algorithms are evaluated against a test scenario, namely, an Arm-type aerial work platform, which has two working modes. The results show that the DE obtains the superior solution than the other two algorithms for color-combination scheme searching problem in terms of optimization accuracy and computation robustness. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed method is feasible and efficient.
A financial crisis is typically a rare kind of an event, but it hurts sustainable economic development when it occurs. This study proposes a multiscale neural network learning paradigm to predict financial crisis events for early-warning purposes. In the proposed multiscale neural network learning paradigm, currency exchange rate, a typical financial indicator that usually reflects economic fluctuations, is first chosen. Then a Hilbert-EMD algorithm is applied to the currency exchange rate series. Using the Hilbert-EMD procedure, some intrinsic mode components (IMCs) of the currency exchange rate series, with different scales, can be obtained. Subsequently, the internal correlation structures of different IMCs are explored by a neural network model. Using the neural network weights, some important IMCs are selected as the final neural network inputs and some unimportant IMCs that are of little use in mapping from inputs to output are discarded. Using these selected IMCs, a neural network learning paradigm is used to predict future financial crisis events, based upon some historical data. For illustration purpose, the proposed multiscale neural network learning paradigm is applied to exchange rate data of two Asian countries to evaluate the state of financial crisis. Experimental results reveal that the proposed multiscale neural network learning paradigm can significantly improve the generalization performance relative to conventional neural networks. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
An LED-array-based range imaging system is proposed for three-dimensional (3-D) shape measurement. The range image is obtained by time-division electronic scanning of the LED Time-of-Flight (TOF) range finders in array, and no complex mechanical scanning is needed. By combining with a low cost CCD/CMOS sensor for capturing the two-dimensional (2-D) image, the proposed range imaging system can be used to accomplish a high quality 3-D imaging. A sophisticated co-lens optical path is designed to assure the natural registration between the range image and 2-D image. Experimental tests for evaluation of the imaging system performance are described. It was found that the 3-D images can be acquired at a rate of 10 frames per second with a depth resolution better than 5mm in the range of 50 - 1000mm, which is sufficient for many practical applications, including the obstacle detection in robotics, machine automation, 3-D vision, virtual reality games and 3-D video.
A new recognition algorithm based on a visual perception theory was introduced according to theory of apparent motion and the topological perception theory proposed by Chen Lin. This algorithm was introduced according to biological visual mechanism and theory. PCNN was employed as topological recognition for the first time, and the dynamic system theory and apparent motion phenomenon was integrated and applied to the representation and recognition of geometrical features. The experiment shows that the algorithm overcomes the shortcoming of image recognition algorithm based on local features.
A stable direct adaptive fuzzy decentralized control for reconfigurable modular manipulators is proposed to satisfy the concept of modular software. For the development of the decentralized control, the dynamics of reconfigurable manipulators is represented as a set of interconnected subsystems. The fuzzy logic systems are introduced to model the unknown dynamics of subsystem and the interconnection term by using adaptive algorithm. Based on Lyapunov stability theorem, the stability of the closed-loop systems can be verified. The simulation results are presented to show the effectiveness of the proposed adaptive fuzzy decentralized control schemes.
This paper deals with the mechanical design and realization of a robotic fish inspired by well-integrated, configurable multiple control surfaces existing in natural fish. Directed against the underwater environment and multimodal motion requirements, the principle and mechanical design for artificial control surfaces involving tail plus caudal fin, pectoral fins, pelvic fin and dorsal fin are discussed. The preliminary construction and control issues are further outlined. Preliminary test results verify the effectiveness of the proposed design. Such a well-assembled fishlike propulsive device, not only provides a repeatable test platform for investigating fish-inspired propulsive mechanisms, but also creates a promising high-performance swimming machine.
The collective behavior of a multi-agent system is the macroscopic phenomenon, such as swarm intelligence, flocking, synchronization, pattern formation, etc. This paper addresses the problem of 'soft-control': how to coordinate the collective behavior of multi-agent systems where the interaction rules of the already-existing agents can not be re-designed. One possible way to is to add one or a few 'shills' which can be designed differently from the normal agent, but is treated as a normal agent by the other normal ones. As a case study, we propose a new strategy for the shill, called 'consistent moving'(,) for the purpose of synchronization of the Vicsek's model. This strategy avoids the limitation of 'cheating heading' in previous work. The computer simulation shows that it is possible for a 'clever' shill with 'consistent moving' strategy can change the collective behavior of a group.
This paper is concerned with the average-consensus problem of first-order discrete-time multi-agent networks with time-varying topologies. Each agent can only receive its neighbors' state information corrupted by stochastic communication noises. To attenuate the noises, a distributed stochastic approximation type protocol is used. By using probability limit theory and algebraic graph theory, sufficient conditions are given to ensure consensus to be achieved asymptotically. Especially, if the network switches between jointly-containing-spanning-tree instantaneously balanced graphs, then the designed protocol can guarantee that each individual state converges to a common random variable almost surely. The expectation of this common variable is right the average of the initial states of the whole system.
In this paper, the collective decision of multi-agent systems based on logical rules is investigated. In the decision process, each agent in the Boolean network is influenced by its neighbor and its own private information based on majority principle. We first give a necessary and sufficient condition of achieving a state given beforehand for general Boolean networks with help of (random) private information sources. Then we consider the consensus behavior of a special class of Boolean networks with each agent having only a neighbor under deterministic and random switching topologies, respectively.
This paper discusses tracking control problem with a discrete-time multi-agent system with active leader and quantized communication constraints. For the active leader in a general linear form, we give a distributed design for each discrete-time agent in the leader tracking control problem and analyze the tracking convergence with the help of Riccati equation and common Lyapunov function when the communication channel is perfect. Then a stochastic quantization strategy is applied to model the information transmission in the agent coordination and the corresponding solution is also given, even if the interconnection topology is switching.
In the paper, we investigate decentralized games of large population stochastic multi-agent systems with Markov jumps. The agents are coupled via their individual indices, and their structure parameters are time-varying, which can be characterized by a sequence of independent and identically distributed (i.i.d) Markov chains. We use the mean field approach to prove that there exist two deterministic functions which can be used to approximate the coupled terms in the indices, and design constructively a decentralized control law. Under some mild conditions, the closed-loop system is shown to be uniform stable and sub-optimal in Nash equilibrium sense, as the number of agents grows to infinity.
Over the past decade, an increasing amount of interest has centered around the consensus ( or synchronization) problem of multi-agent systems (MASs). Although there are numerous results reported on the convergence of an MAS based on the product of an infinite sequence of matrices with a uniform lower bound for all nonzero entries, few are on the convergence rate of the MAS. Estimation of the convergence rate is very often important but also a challenging task. This paper proposes an approach to analyze the convergence rate of discrete-time MASs in the presence of time-varying delays. We obtain an upper bound on the convergence rate under the condition of joint connectivity. Our proposed approach does not require the assumption of uniform lower bound for all nonzero entries of the matrices.
This paper investigates the consensus problem of a 3-dimensional (3D for short) version of the widely studied Vicsek model. The 3D Vicsek model is composed of a large number of autonomous agents, all moving in the 3D Euclidean space with a constant speed and with headings updated according to the average directions of neighbors. Compared with the Vicsek model, each agent's heading is determined by two angles interacting with each other, and one of the two angles evolves according to the non-homogeneous linear equation, which make the theoretical analysis quite complicated. By analyzing the underlying structure of the system and estimating some characteristics concerned with the initial states, we will prove that the system can reach consensus for large population.
This paper studies the use of functional electrical stimulation (FES) method with movement in patients with paraplegia (SCI) for rehabilitation. When FES is applied to the muscles in patients with certain frequency and amplitude of electrical stimulation, the stimulated muscles generate contraction strength. The use of FES can effectively prevent muscle atrophy in patients with paraplegia, and produce good rehabilitation results. This paper is focused on the use of multi-channel FES to lower extremity and the control of multi-muscle to generate rehabilitation movements. Because of the complexity of human motion, this paper has established a three-dimensional musculoskeletal model of the human body. Based on this model, the control of multi-channel FES to achieve cycling has been simulated. The controller designed in this paper is divided into two layers: the outer layer is based on fuzzy control method and it generates desired torque which is needed for cycling movement; the inner layer is a composite controller based on feedforward and PID control, and this layer control of multi-channel FES stimulate muscles to produce desired torque for tracking purposes. The controller of the inner layer uses tracking differentiator to obtain derivative information for the control system. Finally, the simulation results provided shows the effectiveness of the proposed method.
pi-turns are irregular secondary structure elements consisting of short backbone fragments (six-amino-acid residues) where the backbone reverses its overall direction. They play an important role in proteins from both the structural and functional points of view. Recently, some methods have been proposed to predict-turns. In this study, a new method of-turn prediction that uses a two-stage classification scheme is proposed based on support vector machine. In addition, different from previous methods, new coding schemes based on the physicochemical properties and the structural properties of proteins are adopted. Seven-fold cross validation based on a dataset of 640 non-homologue protein chains is used to evaluate the performance of our method. The experiment results show our method can yield a promising performance, which confirms the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
The potential toxicity of chemicals may present adverse effects to the environment and human health. The quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) provides a useful method for hazard assessment. In this study, we constructed a QSAR model based on a highly heterogeneous data set of 571 compounds from the US Environmental Protection Agency, for predicting acute toxicity to the fathead minnow (Pimephales promelas). An approach coupling support vector regression (SVR) with the genetic algorithm (GA) was developed to build the model. The generated QSAR model showed excellent data fitting and prediction abilities: the squared correlation coefficients (r2) for the training set and the test set were 0.826 and 0.802, respectively. Only eight critical descriptors, most of which are closely related to the toxicity mechanism, were chosen by GA-SVR, making the derived model readily interpretable. In summary, the successful case reported here highlights that our GA-SVR approach can be used as a general machine learning method for toxicity prediction.
"Cognitive radio" is an emerging technique to improve the utilization of radio frequency spectrum in wireless networks. This paper discusses the problem of spectrum sharing among primary users and secondary users, and carries out the centralized spectrum allocation with the following two goals: (1) maximize system's sum bandwidth reward, and (2) maximize second users' access fairness. The spectrum allocation problem is formulated into a multi-objective optimization problem aiming at optimizing the system's overall performance and reducing to a graph coloring problem. Graph coloring problem is a well known NP-hard problem. A swarm intelligence based algorithm, particle swarm optimization (PSO), is used to solve the problem. Simulations are conducted to compare the proposed methods with the CSGC algorithms under the Collaborative-Max-Sum-Reward (CSUM) and Collaborative-Max-Proportional-Fair (CMPF) rules. Our experiment results show that the proposed method provides a good tradeoff between the system's sum bandwidth reward and the secondary users' access fairness, and has a better system overall performance. The paper gives an effective method for the spectrum allocation of cognitive radio networks.
This paper presents an immune network-based emergent pattern recognition method. The artificial immune network provides more flexible learning tools than neural networks and clustering technologies. With a neural network, a network structure has to be defined first. The immune network allows their components to change and learn patterns by changing the strength of connections between individual components. The presented computational model achieves emergent pattern recognition by dynamically constructing a network of feature vectors to represent the internal image of input data patterns. The immune network-based emergent pattern recognition approach has tested using a benchmark civil structure. The test result shows the feasibility of using the presented method for the emergent structural damage pattern recognition.
Context-awareness is a basic requirement of ubiquitous computing applications. While lots of good efforts have been made to deliver context-aware tour guide or museum guide, we ask ourselves: "can we build a context-aware fire guide to assist on-site fire victims to escape from a fire?" In reality, many people lose their lives in fire disasters due to bad judgment. Poor decisions are likely made in urgent situations. Timely and appropriate guidance is thus crucial to help people safely escape from the hazardous situations. So far, various pervasive computing techniques have been used to assist the firefighters in different aspects of their mission. However, not much research has been reported on assisting the occupants with personal and user-centric devices. In this paper, we present the idea of designing a context-aware fire response guide (FireGuide) for the building occupants from a technical perspective. By sensing the context of the building on fire and the occupants in the building, FireGuide advises either the fastest safe escape route or an action-list for "no-way-out" people. We evaluate the applicability of FireGuide through both user studies and experiments, which show that context-awareness in such a fire response guide can help improve the egress time. We also highlight the lessons we learn in designing such mission-critical context-aware applications in the paper.
We employ k-nearest neighbor algorithm (KNN) for photometric redshift measurement of quasars with the Fifth Data Release (DR5) of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). KNN is an instance learning algorithm where the result of new instance query is predicted based on the closest training samples. The regressor do not use any model to fit and only based on memory. Given a query quasar, we find the known quasars or (training points) closest to the query point, whose redshift value is simply assigned to be the average of the values of its k nearest neighbors. Three kinds of different colors (PSF, Model or Fiber) and spectral redshifts are used as input parameters, separatively. The combination of the three kinds of colors is also taken as input. The experimental results indicate that the best input pattern is PSF + Model + Fiber colors in all experiments. With this pattern, 59.24%, 77.34% and 84.68% of photometric redshifts are obtained within Delta z < 0.1, 0.2 and 0.3, respectively. If only using one kind of colors as input, the model colors achieve the best performance. However, when using two kinds of colors, the best result is achieved by PSF + Fiber colors. In addition, nearest neighbor method (k = 1) shows its superiority compared to KNN (k not equal 1) for the given sample.
We investigate two methods: kernel regression and nearest neighbor algorithm for photometric redshift estimation with the quasar samples from SDSS (the Sloan Digital Sky Survey) and UKIDSS (the UKIRT Infrared Deep Sky Survey) databases. Both kernel regression and nearest neighbor algorithm belong to the family of instance-based learning algorithms, which store all the training examples and "delay learning" until prediction time. The major difference between the two algorithms is that kernel regression is a weighted average of spectral redshifts of the neighbors for a query point while nearest neighbor algorithm utilizes the spectral redshift of the nearest neighbor for a query point. Each algorithm has its own advantage and disadvantage. Our experimental results show that kernel regression obtains more accurate predicting results, and nearest neighbor algorithm shows its superiority especially for more thinly spread data, e.g. high redshift quasars.
Multi-agent systems arise from diverse fields in natural and artificial systems, such as schooling of fish, flocking of birds, coordination of autonomous agents. In multi-agent systems, a typical and basic situation is the case where each agent has the tendency to behave as other agents do in its neighborhood. Through computer simulations, Vicsek, Czirok, Ben-Jacob, Cohen, and Sochet (1995) showed that such a simple local interaction rule can lead to a certain kind of cooperative phenomenon (synchronization) of the overall system, if the initial states are randomly distributed and the size of the system population is large. Since this model is of fundamental importance in understanding the multi-agent systems, it has attracted much research attention in recent years. In this paper, we will present a comprehensive theoretical analysis for this class of multi-agent systems under a random framework with large population, but without imposing any connectivity assumptions as did in almost all of the previous investigations. To be precise, we will show that for any given and fixed model parameters concerning with the interaction radius r and the agents' moving speed nu, the overall system will synchronize as long as the population size n is large enough. Furthermore, to keep the synchronization property as the population size n increases, both r and v can actually be allowed to decrease according to certain scaling rates. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The optimal control of fuzzy systems with constraints is still an open problem. Our focus concerns the optimal control problem of fuzzy systems derived from receding horizon control (RHC) schemes. We consider methods to numerically compute the value function for general fuzzy systems. The numerical method that is developed using the finite difference with sigmoidal transformation is a stable and convergent algorithm for the Hamilton Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation. An optimization procedure is developed to increase the calculation accuracy with less computation time. A parallel-processing method is employed in the optimization procedure. The optimization results are applied to the controller design of general fuzzy dynamic systems. Employing the principle of conventional RHC schemes, RHC-form controllers are designed for some classes of fuzzy dynamic systems. The basic ideas are as follows. First, the value function is calculated by numerical methods. Then, the value function is used as controller-design parameters to redesign RHC controllers for fuzzy systems, which is motivated by the inverse Lyapunov function design method. It is proven that the closed-loop system is asymptotically stable. An engineering implementation of the controller redesign scheme is discussed. Meanwhile, the parallel-processing framework that can improve the closed-loop performance is also introduced.
The estimation of the fundamental matrix (FM) and/or one or more homographies between two views is of great interest for a number of computer vision and robotics tasks. We consider the joint estimation of the FM and one or more homographies. Given point matches between two views (and assuming rigid geometry of the camera-scene displacement), it is well known that all of the matched points satisfy the epipolar constraint that is usually characterized by the FM. Subsets of these pointmatches may also obey a constraint characterized by a homography (all matches in the subset coming from three-dimensional (3-D) points lying on a 3-D plane). The estimations of homographies and the FM are well-studied problems, and therefore, the (separate) estimation of the FM, or the homography matrices, can be considered as effectively solved problems with mature algorithms. However, the homographies and FM are not independent of each other: therefore, separate estimation of each is likely to be suboptimal. In this paper, we propose to simultaneously estimate the FM and homographies by employing the compatibility constraint between them. This is done by first concentrating on a set of parameters that (jointly) parameterize the entire set of homographies and FM(simultaneously) and that also implicitly enforce the compatibility between the estimates of each set. We then derive a reduced form with the purpose of improving the speed. We propose a solution method in which the Sampson error for the FM and homographies is minimized by the Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) algorithm. Experiments show that the gains can be compared with separate estimates (the FM and/or the homographies).
Today's supply chains increasingly involve complex sets of processes, objectives and constraints, and therefore agent-based architectures for supply chain management (SCM) become much more difficult to implement and maintain. The paper presents a multi-a gent architecture for specifying, analyzing and developing SCM systems, in which asynchronous teams (A-Team) of problem solving agents exchange results within populations that provide effective management of information flows in supply chains, and cooperate to produce sets of non-dominated solutions that show the tradeoffs between objectives. Our approach distinguishes itself by improving problem-solving efficiency based on a diverse set of algorithms without complicated synthesis efforts, removing the focus from agent communication and coordination details, and improving reusability, flexibility and extensibility by supporting object-oriented and component-based programming style. We examine the effectiveness of the architecture through areal-world case study and experimental results.
This paper considers a multi-agent tracking problem for a high-dimensional active leader and variable interconnection topology. The state of the leader not only keeps changing but also may not be measured. To estimate the state such a leader individually, a neighbor-based local controller together with a neighbor-based state-estimation rule is given for each autonomous agent. Then, the authors prove that, with the help of a constructed common Lyapunov function (CLF), each agent can track the active leader with unmeasurable states. Finally, the authors explicitly construct a CLF for an active leader with unknown periodic input for illustration.
The automated classification and recognition of stellar spectra is an important research for the spectra processing system of modern telescope survey project. For the spectra without flux calibration. the authors present all automated stellar spectra classification system to achieve two goals: one is the spectral class and spectral subclass classification, and the other is luminosity type recognition. The system is composed of three units: (1) continuum normalization method based on wavelet technique; (2) non-parameter regression method for spectral class and spectral subclass classification; (3) chi(2) method based oil nearest neighbor for luminosity type determination. The experiments on low-resolution spectra show that the system achieves 3.2 spectral sub-class precision for spectral and spectral subclass classification, 60% correct rate for luminosity recognition, and 78% rate for the luminosity recognition with error less than or equal to 1. The system is easy, rapid in training, and feasible for the automated spectra classification.
Inspired by social insects, swarm intelligence has been hotly investigated in recent years as an innovative artificial intelligence technique for solving problems. In this paper, we mainly focus on the information interaction of individuals in swarm intelligence. By using information entropy H(X) and mutual information I(X;Y) of information theory to evaluate the information quality and interaction efficiency, respectively, the interaction model is proposed. Within this model, individuals' information is evaluated with uniform standards, so that more excellent individuals can be selected to influence other individuals by interaction. We validated this model with the route-exchange algorithm, which is proposed for combinatorial optimization. Seven benchmarks of the Traveling Salesman Problem are tested in the experiments. The results are compared with other heuristic algorithms.
Local structures predicted from protein sequences are used extensively in every aspect of modeling and prediction of protein structure and function. For more than 50 years, they have been predicted at a low-resolution coarse-grained level (e.g., three-state secondary structure). Here, we combine a two-state classifier with real-value predictor to predict local structure in continuous representation by backbone torsion angles. The accuracy of the angles predicted by this approach is close to that derived from NMR chemical shifts. Their substitution for predicted secondary structure as restraints for ab initio structure prediction doubles the success rate. This result demonstrates the potential of predicted local structure for fragment-free tertiary-structure prediction. It further implies potentially significant benefits from using predicted real-valued torsion angles as a replacement for or supplement to the secondary-structure prediction tools used almost exclusively in many computational methods ranging from sequence alignment to function prediction.
Neural activity can induce persistent strengthening or weakening of synapses, known as long-term potentiation (LTP) or long-term depression (LTD), respectively. As potential cellular mechanisms underlying learning and memory, LTP and LTD are generally regarded as synapse-specific "imprints'' of activity, although there is evidence in vitro that LTP/LTD may spread to adjacent synapses. Here, we report that LTP and LTD induced in vivo at retinotectal synapses of Xenopus tadpoles undergo rapid long-range retrograde spread from the optic tectum to the retina, resulting in potentiation and depression of bipolar cell synapses on the dendrites of retinal ganglion cells, respectively. The retrograde spread of LTP and LTD required retrograde signaling initiated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor and nitric oxide in the tectum, respectively. Such bidirectional adjustment of the strength of input synapses in accordance to that of output synapses may serve to coordinate developmental refinement and learning functions of neural circuits.
Cognition and emotion have long been thought of as independent systems. However, recent research in the cognitive and neurobiological sciences has shown that the relationship between cognition and emotion is more interdependent than separate. Based on evidence from behavioral and neuroscientific research, researchers have realized that it is necessary to propose a new conceptual framework to describe the relationship between cognition and emotion. In this article, recent research from behavioral, neuroscientific and developmental research on the interaction between cognition and emotion is summarized, and how the interaction of cognition and emotion might affect computer science and artificial intelligence is discussed. It especially focuses on the implications for affective computing.
User's knowledge requirement acquisition and analysis are very important for a personalized or user-adaptive learning system. Two approaches to capture user's knowledge requirement about course content within an e-learning system are proposed and implemented in this paper. The first approach is based on the historical data accumulated by an interactive question-answering process. The association space is proposed to record and formalize the historical interactive information which is used to compute user's knowledge requirement. The second approach is based on user's reading behavior logs in the process of reading e-documents. User's reading actions including underline, highlight, circle, annotation and bookmark, are used to compute user's knowledge requirement. Two experiments are conducted to implement the two proposed approaches and acquire the user's knowledge requirement. The evaluation results show that the user models computed by two approaches are consistent and can reflect user's real knowledge requirements accurately. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Damage detection in structures is one of the research topics that have received growing interest in research communities. While a number of damage detection and localization methods have been proposed, very few attempts have been made to explore the structure damage classification problem. This paper presents an Artificial Immune Pattern Recognition (AIPR) approach for the damage classification in structures. An AIPR-based structure damage classifier has been developed, which incorporates several novel characteristics of the natural immune system. The structure damage pattern recognition is achieved through mimicking immune recognition mechanisms that possess features such as adaptation, evolution, and immune learning. The damage patterns are represented by feature vectors that are extracted from the structure's dynamic response measurements. The training process is designed based on the clonal selection principle in the immune system. The selective and adaptive features of the clonal selection algorithm allow the classifier to evolve its pattern recognition antibodies towards the goal of matching the training data. In addition, the immune learning algorithm can learn and remember different data patterns by generating a set of memory cells that contains representative feature vectors for each class (pattern). The performance of the presented structure damage classifier has been validated using a benchmark structure proposed by the IASC-ASCE (International Association for Structural Control-American Society of Civil Engineers) Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) Task Group and a three-story frame provided by Los Alamos National Laboratory. The validation results show that the AIPR-based pattern recognition is suitable for structure damage classification. The presented research establishes a fundamental basis for the application of the AIPR concepts in the structure damage classification. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Due to the increasing availability and sophistication of data recording techniques, multiple information sources and distributed computing are becoming the important trends of modern information systems. Many applications such as security informatics and social computing require a ubiquitous data analysis platform so that decisions can be made rapidly under distributed and dynamic system environments. Although data mining has now been popularly used to achieve such goals, building a data mining system is, however, a nontrivial task, which may require a complete understanding on numerous data mining techniques as well as solid programming skills. Employing agent techniques for data analysis thus becomes increasingly important, especially for users not familiar with engineering and computational sciences, to implement an effective ubiquitous mining platform. Such data mining agents should, in practice, be intelligent, complete, and compact. In this paper, we present an interactive data mining agent - OIDM (online interactive data mining), which provides three categories (classification, association analysis, and clustering) of data mining tools, and interacts with the user to facilitate the mining process. The interactive mining is accomplished through interviewing the user about the data mining task to gain efficient and intelligent data mining control. OIDM can help users find appropriate mining algorithms, refine and compare the mining process, and finally achieve the best mining results. Such interactive data mining agent techniques provide alternative solutions to rapidly deploy data mining techniques to broader areas of data intelligence and knowledge informatics.
In this paper, sampled-data based average-consensus control is considered for networks consisting of continuous-time first-order integrator agents in a noisy distributed communication environment. The impact of the sampling size and the number of network nodes on the system performances is analyzed. The control input of each agent can only use information measured at the sampling instants from its neighborhood rather than the complete continuous process, and the measurements of its neighbors' states are corrupted by random noises. By probability limit theory and the property of graph Laplacian matrix, it is shown that for a connected network, the static mean square error between the individual state and the average of the initial states of all agents can be made arbitrarily small, provided the sampling size is sufficiently small. Furthermore, by properly choosing the consensus gains, almost sure consensus can be achieved. It is worth pointing out that an uncertainty principle of Gaussian networks is obtained, which implies that in the case of white Gaussian noises, no matter what the sampling size is, the product of the steady-state and transient performance indices is always equal to or larger than a constant depending on the noise intensity, network topology and the number of network nodes.
We present a heuristic framework for attacking the undecidable termination problem of logic programs, as an alternative to current termination/nontermination proof approaches. We introduce an idea of termination prediction, which predicts termination of a logic program in case that neither a termination nor a non-termination proof is applicable. We establish a necessary and sufficient characterization of infinite (generalized) SLDNF-derivations with arbitrary (concrete or moded) queries, and develop an algorithm that predicts termination of general logic programs with arbitrary nonfloundering queries. We have implemented a termination prediction tool and obtained quite satisfactory experimental results. Except for five programs which break the experiment time limit, Our prediction is 100% correct for all 296 benchmark programs of the Termination Competition 2007, of which 18 programs cannot be proved by any of the existing state-of-the-art analyzers like AProVE07, NTI, Polytool, and TALP.
Chunk decomposition has been regarded as an important process in problem solving that helps problem solvers to generate new solution paths through changing inappropriate problem representations. We studied the neural bases of chunk decomposition in Chinese characters using the electroencephalogram (EEG). Participants decomposed Chinese characters either at the level of radicals or at the level of strokes to generate new target characters with a different meaning. We hypothesized that decomposition at the stroke levei would require a more fundamental change in the problem representation that should involve differences in basic visual processing. To test this hypothesis, we compared the alpha rhythm (8-13 Hz) over parietal-occipital regions between the two different conditions. The regrouping of tight chunks (stroke level) exhibited a stronger alpha activation than the regrouping of loose chunks approximately 500 ms prior to response. Thus visual areas were less active during the decomposition of tight chunks. Together with a previous fMRI study the results provide convincing evidence that attenuation of early visual information is required to generate new meaning. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Seven pairs of epimers and one pair of isomeric metabolites of taxanes, each pair of which have similar structures but different retention behaviors, together with additional 13 taxanes with different substitutions were chosen to investigate the quantitative structure-retention relationship (QSRR) of taxanes in ultra fast liquid chromatography (UFLC). Monte Carlo variable selection (MCVS) method was adopted to choose descriptors. The selected four descriptors were used to build QSRR model with multi-linear regression (MLR) and artificial neural network (ANN) modeling techniques. Both linear and nonlinear models show good predictive ability, of which ANN model was better with the determination coefficient R(2) for training, validation and test set being 0.9892, 0.9747 and 0.9840. respectively. The results of l 00 times' leave-12-out cross validation showed the robustness of this model. All the isomers can be correctly differentiated by this model. According to the selected descriptors, the three dimensional structural information was critical for recognition of epimers. Hydrophobic interaction was the uppermost factor for retention in UFLC. Molecules' polarizability and polarity properties were also closely correlated with retention behaviors. This QSRR model will be useful for separation and identification of taxanes including epimers and metabolites from botanical or biological samples. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A neural-network-based adaptive controller is proposed for the tracking problem of manipulators with uncertain kinematics, dynamics and actuator model. The adaptive Jacobian scheme is used to estimate the unknown kinematics parameters. Uncertainties in the manipulator dynamics and actuator model are compensated by three-layer neural networks. External disturbances and approximation errors are counteracted by robust signals. The actuator controller is designed based on the backstepping scheme. Compared with the existing work, the proposed method considers the manipulator kinematics uncertainty, does not need the ``linearity-in-parameters'' assumption for the uncertain terms in the dynamics of manipulator and actuator, and guarantees the tracking error to be as small as desired. Finally, the performance of the proposed approach is illustrated by the simulation example. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The sixth Data Release (DR6) of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) provides more photometric regions, new features and more accurate data around globular cluster Palomar 5. A new method, Back Propagation Neural Network (BPNN), is used to estimate the cluster membership probability in order to detect its tidal tails. Cluster and field stars, used for training the networks, are extracted over a 40 x 20 deg(2) field by color-magnitude diagrams (CMDs). The best BPNNs with two hidden layers and a Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) training algorithm are determined by the chosen cluster and field samples. The membership probabilities of stars in the whole field are obtained with the BPNNs, and contour maps of the probability distribution show that a tail extends 5.42 degrees to the north of the cluster and another tail extends 3.77 degrees to the south. The tails are similar to those detected by Odenkirchen et al., but no more debris from the cluster is found to the northeast in the sky. The radial density profiles are investigated both along the tails and near the cluster center. Quite a few substructures are discovered in the tails. The number density profile of the cluster is fitted with the King model and the tidal radius is determined as 14.28 degrees. However, the King model cannot fit the observed profile at the outer regions (R > 8') because of the tidal tails generated by the tidal force. Luminosity functions of the cluster and the tidal tails are calculated, which confirm that the tails originate from Palomar 5.
In nD differential geometry, basic geometric structures and properties are described locally by differentiable functions and equations with indices that obey Einstein summation convention. Although symbolic manipulation of such indexed functions is one of the oldest research topics in computer algebra, so far there exists no normal form reduction algorithm to judge whether two indexed polynomials involving indices of different coordinate systems are equal or not. It is a challenging task in computer algebra.
Besides the enormous medical and economic consequences, national disasters, such as the Wenchuan 8.0 earthquake, also pose a risk to the mental health of survivors. In this context, a better understanding is needed of how functional brain systems adapt to severe emotional stress. Previous animal studies have demonstrated the importance of limbic, paralimbic, striatal, and prefrontal structures in stress and fear responses. Human studies, which have focused primarily on patients with clinically established posttraumatic stress disorders, have reported abnormalities in similar brain structures. At present, little is known about potential alterations of brain function in trauma survivors shortly after traumatic events. Here, we show alteration of brain function in a cohort of healthy survivors within 25 days after the Wenchuan earthquake by a recently discovered method known as "resting-state'' functional MRI. The current investigation demonstrates that regional activity in frontolimbic and striatal areas increased significantly and connectivity among limbic and striatal networks was attenuated in our participants who had recently experienced severe emotional trauma. Trauma victims also had a reduced temporal synchronization within the "default mode'' of resting-state brain function, which has been characterized in humans and other species. Taken together, our findings provide evidence that significant alterations in brain function, similar in many ways to those observed in posttraumatic stress disorders, can be seen shortly after major traumatic experiences, highlighting the need for early evaluation and intervention for trauma survivors.
Based on orthogonal experimental results of porous Si3N4 ceramics by gel casting preparation, a three-layer back propagation artificial neural network (BPANN) was developed for predicting the performances of porous Si3N4 ceramics. The results indicated that BPANN was a very useful and accurate tool for the prediction and optimization of porous Si3N4 ceramics performances. By using the developed ANN model, the influences of the compositions on performances of porous Si3N4 ceramics were investigated, and some important conclusions were drawn as follows: for the flexural strength of Si3N4 ceramics, solid loading has an optimum value where can achieve a maximum value, and the optimum solid loading decreases with the increase of monomer content; the porosity of sintering body monotonically decreases with the increase of solid loading, and it increases with monomer content; the porosity of sintering body monotonically increases with the increase of the ratio of crosslinking agent to monomer. Crown Copyright (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier Ltd and Techna Group S.r.l. All fights reserved.
In this paper, the near-optimal control problem for a class of nonlinear discrete-time systems with control constraints is solved by iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm. First, a novel nonquadratic performance functional is introduced to overcome the control constraints, and then an iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm is developed to solve the optimal feedback control problem of the original constrained system with convergence analysis. In the present control scheme, there are three neural networks used as parametric structures for facilitating the implementation of the iterative algorithm. Two examples are given to demonstrate the convergence and feasibility of the proposed optimal control scheme.
The studies of complex systems have been recognized as one of the greatest challenges for current and future science and technology. Open complex giant systems (OCGSs) are a family of specially complex systems with system complexities such as openness, human involvement, societal characteristic, and intelligence emergence. They greatly challenge multiple disciplines such as system sciences, system engineering, cognitive sciences, information systems, artificial intelligence, and computer sciences. As a result, traditional problem-solving methodologies can help deal with them but are far from a mature solution methodology. The theory of qualitative-to-quantitative metasynthesis has been proposed as a breakthrough and effective methodology for the understanding and problem solving of OCGSs. In this paper, we propose the concepts of M-Interaction, M-Space, and M-Computing which are three key components for studying OCGS and building problem-solving systems. M-Interaction forms the main problem-solving mechanism of qualitative-to-quantitative metasynthesis; M-Space is the OCGS problem-solving system embedded with M-Interactions, while M-Computing consists of engineering approaches to the analysis, design, and implementation of M-Space and M-Interaction. We discuss the theoretical framework, problem-solving process, social cognitive evolution, intelligence emergence, and pitfalls of certain types of cognitions in developing M-Space and M-Interaction from the perspectives of cognitive sciences and social cognitive interaction. These can help one understand complex systems and develop effective problem-solving methodologies.
Although the theory of YinYang WuXing (YYWX) or YinYang-5-Elements (subsystems of human body) has been a major analytical basis for Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) for thousands of years, the theory has been primarily empirical in nature without a formal mathematical or scientific foundation. Based on bipolar set theory, YinYang bipolar linear algebra is introduced and an equilibrium-or nonequilibrium-based computational model of YYWX is proposed. Nourishing and regulating relations are defined; YYWX dynamic equations are formulated; global and local equilibrium and nonequilibrium conditions are established and proved. Computer simulations of equilibrium and nonequilibrium processes show that the new approach provides a unique scientific basis for future research and development in herbal medicine, Qi (vital energy), QiGong, JingLuo (acupuncture channels), and acupuncture. A decision support system is prototyped and presented for diagnostic decision analysis in TCM. Furthermore, this work is expected to provide a basic YinYang cellular network architecture for modern scientific research in socioeconomics as well as in genomics, bioeconomics, metabolism, computational biology, aging, artificial intelligence, and biomedical engineering.
Based on our hand-on experiences in developing a service-based problem-solving environment for bioinformatics research, we present in this paper a particular approach called VINCA4Science to business-oriented modeling of service functionalities, to Web services virtualization and to user-centric utilization of modeled artifacts. Some practical effects regarding the improvement of domain stability, efficiency and scalability are illustrated. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: Protein fold recognition is a key step in protein three-dimensional (3D) structure discovery. There are multiple fold discriminatory data sources which use physicochemical and structural properties as well as further data sources derived from local sequence alignments. This raises the issue of finding the most efficient method for combining these different informative data sources and exploring their relative significance for protein fold classification. Kernel methods have been extensively used for biological data analysis. They can incorporate separate fold discriminatory features into kernel matrices which encode the similarity between samples in their respective data sources.
Recent functional neuroimaging studies have examined cognitive inhibitory control, decision-making and stress regulation in heroin addiction using a cue-reactivity paradigm. Few studies have considered impairments in heroin users from an integrated perspective for evaluation of their brain functions. We hypothesized that the brain regions that are dysregulated in the chronic heroin users during cue-reactivity studies may also show dysfunctional connectivity in memory, inhibition and motivation-related dysfunctions during a resting state free of cues. The present study used resting functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to compare the interaction of brain regions between 12 chronic heroin users and 12 controls by employing a novel graph theory analysis (GTA) method. As a data-driven approach, GTA has the advantage of evaluating the strength as well as the temporal and spatial patterns of interactions among the brain regions. Abnormal topological properties were explored in the brain of chronic heroin users, such as the dysfunctional connectivity in the prefrontal cortex, ACC, SMA, ventral striatum, insula, amygdala and hippocampus. Our results suggest that GTA is a useful tool in defining dysregulated neural networks even during rest. This dysfunctional brain connectivity may contribute to decrease self-control, impaired inhibitory function as well deficits in stress regulation in chronic heroin users. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
It has been proved that higher total nitrogen removal efficiency could be obtained in step feeding activated sludge process by adjusting the inflow rate distribution and the volume of each stage. But the optimization of the step feeding process would be complicated owing to adjustment of inflow rate and volume. To develop the auto-control and operational decision support system is an urgent and necessary work for well application of step feeding process. Although biological wastewater treatment, especially the biological nitrogen removal process, has the characteristics of complex nonlinear, it provides widespread opportunities for artificial intelligent control. In this paper a fuzzy control model of anoxic/oxic step feeding activated sludge process was developed under the condition of sufficient and insufficient influent carbon source. The detailed information on development of fuzzy model was addressed based on collecting and analyzing previous experimental data. The influent C/N ratio was selected as input variable and inflow rate and volume distribution in each stage were selected as output variables. Moreover, the calibration and application approaches of control model were also studied through pilot-scale experiments (1000 L/d) with domestic sewage. The highlight is that the method and approach of model calibration are well discussed so that it provides good opportunities on practical application. During three months experimental period enhanced total nitrogen removal efficiency of more than 95.1% was reached with the influent C/N ratio of 8.16-12.3, average of 9.78. (C) 2009 Published by Elsevier B.V.
It is well known that many real-world complex networks have various uncertain information, such as unknown or uncertain topological structure and node dynamics. The structure identification problem has theoretical and practical importance for uncertain complex dynamical networks. At the same time, time delay often appears in the state variables or coupling coefficients of various practical complex networks. This paper initiates a novel approach for simultaneously identifying the topological structure and unknown parameters of uncertain general complex networks with time delay. In particular, this method is also effective for uncertain delayed complex dynamical networks with different node dynamics. Moreover, the proposed method can be easily extended to monitor the on-line evolution of network topological structure. Finally, three representative examples are then given to verify the effectiveness of the proposed approach. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, average-consensus control is considered for networks of continuous-time integrator agents under fixed and directed topologies. The control input of each agent can only use its local state and the states of its neighbors corrupted by white noises. To attenuate the measurement noises, time-varying consensus gains are introduced in the consensus protocol. By combining the tools of algebraic graph theory and stochastic analysis, the convergence of these kinds of protocols is analyzed. Firstly, for noise-free cases, necessary and sufficient conditions are given on the network topology and consensus gains to achieve average-consensus. Secondly, for the cases with measurement noises, necessary and sufficient conditions are given on the consensus gains to achieve asymptotic unbiased mean square average-consensus. It is shown that under the protocol designed, all agents' states converge to a common Gaussian random variable, whose mathematical expectation is just the average of the initial states. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper presents a new statistical techniques - Bayesian Generalized Associative Functional Networks (GAFN), to model the dynamical plant growth process of greenhouse crops. GAFNs are able to incorporate the domain knowledge and data to model complex ecosystem. By use of the functional networks and Bayesian framework, the prior knowledge can be naturally embedded into the model, and the functional relationship between inputs and outputs can be learned during the training process. Our main interest is focused on the Generalized Associative Functional Networks (GAFNs), which are appropriate to model multiple variable processes. Three main advantages are obtained through the applications of Bayesian GAFN methods to modeling dynamic process of plant growth. Firstly, this approach provides a powerful tool for revealing some useful relationships between the greenhouse environmental factors and the plant growth parameters. Secondly. Bayesian GAFN can model Multiple-Input Multiple-Output (MIMO) systems from the given data, and presents a good generalization capability from the final single model for successfully fitting ail 12 data sets over 5-year field experiments. Thirdly, the Bayesian GAFN method can also play as an optimization tool to estimate the interested parameter in the agro-ecosystem. In this work, two algorithms are proposed for the statistical inference of parameters in GAFNs. Both of them are based on the variational inference, also called variational Bayes (VB) techniques, which may provide probabilistic interpretations for the built models. VB-based learning methods are able to yield estimations of the full posterior probability of model parameters. Synthetic and real-world examples are implemented to confirm the validity of the proposed methods. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In the literature, it was reported that the chaotic artificial neural network model with sinusoidal activation functions possesses a large memory capacity as well as a remarkable ability of retrieving the stored patterns, better than the conventional chaotic model with only monotonic activation functions such as sigmoidal functions. This paper, from the viewpoint of the anti-integrable limit, elucidates the mechanism inducing the superiority of the model with periodic activation functions that includes sinusoidal functions. Particularly, by virtue of the anti-integrable limit technique, this paper shows that any finite-dimensional neural network model with periodic activation functions and properly selected parameters has much more abundant chaotic dynamics that truly determine the model's memory capacity and pattern-retrieval ability. To some extent, this paper mathematically and numerically demonstrates that an appropriate choice of the activation functions and control scheme can lead to a large memory capacity and better pattern-retrieval ability of the artificial neural network models.
The distal end of the axon initial segment (AIS) is the preferred site for action potential initiation in cortical pyramidal neurons because of its high Na+ channel density. However, it is not clear why action potentials are not initiated at the proximal AIS, which has a similarly high Na+ channel density. We found that low-threshold Na(v)1.6 and high-threshold Na(v)1.2 channels preferentially accumulate at the distal and proximal AIS, respectively, and have distinct functions in action potential initiation and backpropagation. Patch-clamp recording from the axon cut end of pyramidal neurons in the rat prefrontal cortex revealed a high density of Na+ current and a progressive reduction in the half-activation voltage (up to 14 mV) with increasing distance from the soma at the AIS. Further modeling studies and simultaneous somatic and axonal recordings showed that distal Na(v)1.6 promotes action potential initiation, whereas proximal Na(v)1.2 promotes its backpropagation to the soma.
Hybrid electric vehicles powered by fuel cells have been focused for alternative powertrains due to their high efficiency and low emission. The relative engine sizing and power split strategy of different power sources have great effect in influencing the fuel economy. In this paper, for a given driving cycle, the overall efficiency of a fuel cell/battery hybrid vehicle is maximized by identifying the best degree of hybridization (DOH) and a power control strategy. Fuzzy logic is used in power distribution of the hybrid vehicle, where the optimized centers and widths of membership functions are found by optimization. Simulation results show that the optimally designed and controlled hybrid vehicle can provide good fuel economy and overall system efficiency. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a new method for the control of the shape of the conditional output probability density function (pdf) for general nonlinear dynamic stochastic systems is presented using two-step neural networks (NNs). Following the square-root B-spline NN approximation to the measured output pdf, the problem is transferred into the tracking of dynamic weights. Different from the previous related works, time-delay dynamic NNs with undetermined parameters are employed to identify the nonlinear relationships between the control input and the weighting vectors. In order to achieve the required control objective and satisfy the state constraints due to the property of output pdfs, a constrained PI tracking controller is designed by solving a class of linear matrix inequalities and algebraic equations. With the proposed tracking controller and adaptive projection algorithms, both identification and tracking errors can be made to converge to zero, and the state constraints can also be simultaneously guaranteed. Finally, two simulated examples are given, which effectively demonstrate the use of the proposed control algorithm.
In this paper, a novel modular neural network is proposed to solve multi-class problems with imbalanced training sets. The proposed model can transform an imbalanced classification problem into a set of symmetrical two-class problems, each of which is solved by single neural network with a simple structure. The results of all neural networks are then combined by averaging or GA method to form a final classification decision. The experimental results show that the proposed method reduces the time consumption for training and improves the classification performance. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Credit risk analysis is an active research area in financial risk management and credit scoring is one of the key analytical techniques in credit risk evaluation. In this study, a novel intelligent-agent-based fuzzy group decision making (GDM) model is proposed as an effective multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) tool for credit risk evaluation. In this proposed model, some artificial intelligent techniques, which are used as intelligent agents, are first used to analyze and evaluate the risk levels of credit applicants over a set of pre-defined criteria. Then these evaluation results, generated by different intelligent agents, are fuzzified into some fuzzy opinions on credit risk level of applicants. Finally, these fuzzification opinions are aggregated into a group consensus and meantime the fuzzy aggregated consensus is defuzzified into a crisp aggregated value to support final decision for decision-makers of credit-granting institutions. For illustration and verification purposes, a simple numerical example and three real-world credit application approval datasets are presented. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neural networks (NNs) have been applied to ionospheric predictions recently. This paper uses radial basis function neural network (RBF-NN) to forecast hourly values of the ionospheric F-2 layer critical frequency(f(o)F(2)), over Wuhan (30.5N, 114.3E), China. The false nearest neighbor method is used to determine the embedding dimension, and the principal component analysis (PCA) is used to reduce noise and dimension. The whole study is based on a sample of about 26,000 observations of f(o)F(2) with 1-h time resolution, derived during the period from January 1981 to December 1983. The performance of RBF-NN is estimated by calculating the normalized root-mean-squared (NRMSE) error, and its results show that short-term predictions of f(o)F(2) are improved. (c) 2009 Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of COSPAR.
Soil fertility is conventionally evaluated by soil properties such as C, N, and P contents. Evaluation of soil fertility is now becoming a routine work for soil management and crop production. However, laboratory-analysis based determination of soil properties is time and cost consuming, which is not suitable for precision agriculture. Here, infrared spectroscopy (IR) appears as an alternative and fast technique to measure soil fertility. The IR transmission method is generally used in soil qualitative analysis, while the IR reflectance can be used in soil quantitative analysis, and most of soil-related research is focused on reflectance spectroscopy. Infrared reflectance spectra, including diffuse reflectance spectra and total attenuated reflectance spectra, are involved in soil quantitative analysis. We observe an excellent performance of predicting soil C and N contents using IR spectra. Moreover, in most of cases the predictions of the contents of soil P, K, Ca, Mg, S, and some other microelements are satisfactory. Soil water, soil clays, and soil microbes can also be characterized and evaluated using IR spectroscopy. In recent years, a new method named infrared photoacoustic spectra was applied in soil analysis. Infrared-photoacoustic spectra is indeed more convenient for sample pretreatment and spectra recording, and the recorded soil spectra contain more useful information versus conventional reflectance spectroscopy. Though currently the application of infrared photoacoustic spectroscopy in soil analysis is limited, it appears promising to measure soil fertility. The application of infrared spectroscopy in soil fertility is largely dependent on spectra pretreatment and multivariate calibration due to strong interferences in the spectra. Partial least square (PLS) and artificial neural network (ANN) are two widely used mathematical tools in the prediction of soil properties, and more mathematical tools combined models will benefit the prediction performance. To make full use of soil infrared spectra, soil spectra library construction is needed in future, and a standard procedure should be first decided in the construction. Based on soil infrared spectra library soil fertility can be fast evaluated combining suitable mathematical model, which will play an important role in the sustainable agriculture.
The slow convergence of back-propagation neural network (BPNN) has become a challenge in data-mining and knowledge discovery applications due to the drawbacks of the gradient descent (GD) optimization method, which is widely adopted in BPNN learning. To solve this problem, some standard optimization techniques such as conjugate-gradient and Newton method have been proposed to improve the convergence rate of BP learning algorithm. This paper presents a heuristic method that adds an adaptive smoothing momentum term to original BP learning algorithm to speedup the convergence. In this improved BP learning algorithm, adaptive smoothing technique is used to adjust the momentums of weight updating formula automatically in terms of "3 sigma limits theory." Using the adaptive smoothing momentum terms, the improved BP learning algorithm can make the network training and convergence process faster, and the network's generalization performance stronger than the standard BP learning algorithm can do. In order to verify the effectiveness of the proposed BP learning algorithm, three typical foreign exchange rates, British pound (GBP), Euro (EUR), and Japanese yen (JPY), are chosen as the forecasting targets for illustration purpose. Experimental results from homogeneous algorithm comparisons reveal that the proposed BP learning algorithm outperforms the other comparable BP algorithms in performance and convergence rate. Furthermore, empirical results from heterogeneous model comparisons also show the effectiveness of the proposed BP learning algorithm.
This paper presents an integrated scheme for motion control and internal force control for a redundantly actuated omnidirectional wheeled mobile robot. The interactive forces between a robot body and its wheels can be reduced into two orthogonal parts: motion-induced forces and internal forces. First, it is shown that the internal forces reside in the null space of the coefficient matrix of the interactive forces and do not affect robotic motion. However, these forces caused by motor torques should be minimized as much as possible to increase the energy efficiency and life span of joint components. With different goals, the control for motion and the control for internal forces can be designed separately. Here, both kinematic and dynamic models of the forces are proposed. A proportional differential plus controller regulates the motion and an inverse dynamic controller tracks it. Then, to minimize the internal forces, an integral feedback internal force controller is used. The motion controller guarantees the robotic motion while the internal force controller minimizes the internal force occurring during robot motion. Simulation results verify the effectiveness of the proposed schemes.
A robust adaptive control approach is proposed to solve the consensus problem of multiagent systems. Compared with the previous work, the agent's dynamics includes the uncertainties and external disturbances, which is more practical in real-world applications. Due to the approximation capability of neural networks, the uncertain dynamics is compensated by the adaptive neural network scheme. The effects of the approximation error and external disturbances are counteracted by employing the robustness signal. The proposed algorithm is decentralized because the controller for each agent only utilizes the information of its neighbor agents. By the theoretical analysis, it is proved that the consensus error can be reduced as small as desired. The proposed method is then extended to two cases: Agents form a prescribed formation, and agents have the higher order dynamics. Finally, simulation examples are given to demonstrate the satisfactory performance of the proposed method.
This paper addresses the robust trajectory tracking problem for a redundantly actuated omnidirectional mobile manipulator in the presence of uncertainties and disturbances. The development of control algorithms is based on sliding mode control (SMC) technique. First, a dynamic model is derived based on the practical omnidirectional mobile manipulator system. Then, a SMC scheme, based on the fixed large upper boundedness of the system dynamics (FLUBSMC), is designed to ensure trajectory tracking of the closed-loop system. However, the FLUBSNIC scheme has inherent deficiency, which needs computing the upper boundedness of the system dynamics, and may cause high noise amplification and high control cost, particularly for the complex dynamics of the omnidirectional mobile manipulator system. Therefore, a robust neural network (NN)-based sliding mode controller (NNSMC), which uses an NN to identify the unstructured system dynamics directly, is further proposed to overcome the disadvantages of FLUBSMC and reduce the online computing burden of conventional NN adaptive controllers. Using learning ability of NN, NNSMC can coordinately control the omnidirectional mobile platform and the mounted manipulator with different dynamics effectively. The stability of the closed-loop system, the convergence of the NN weight-updating process, and the boundedness of the NN weight estimation errors are all strictly guaranteed. Then, in order to accelerate the NN learning efficiency, a partitioned NN structure is applied. Finally, simulation examples are given to demonstrate the proposed NNSMC approach can guarantee the whole system's convergence to the desired manifold with prescribed performance.
A simplified neural network model is proposed to solve a class of linear matrix inequality problems. The stability and solvability of the proposed neural network are analyzed and discussed theoretically. In comparison with the previous neural network models (Lin and Huang, Neural Process Lett 11:153-169, 2000; Lin et al., IEEE Trans Neural Netw 11:1078-1092, 2000), the simplified one is composed of two layers rather than three layers, and the neuron array in each layer is triangular rather than square. The proposed approach can therefore reduce the complexity of the neural network architecture. In addition, the simplified neural network can also be extended to solve multiple linear matrix inequalities with specific constraints, which enlarges the application domain of the proposed approach. Finally, examples are given to illustrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the simplified neural network.
Cheatgrass (Bromus tectorum) is an invasive, exotic grass infesting the Western US. Multi-temporal Landsat TM imagery and ancillary topographic data were used for mapping this invasion over portions of Utah. Tobit, logit, probit, and Projection Adjustment by Contribution Estimation (PACE) regression, neural networks, and additive regression of regression trees were tested individually, and in an ensemble, Tobit regression had the best performance as an individual predictor. Tobit was most frequently the best predictor of zero cheatgrass coverage. A meta-predictor (classifier) to choose the best predictive model was implemented on a pixel-by-pixel basis. A J48 classification tree as a meta-predictor resulted in an increase in accuracy over the best performer in the ensemble. This study illustrated the potential for meta-prediction as a general technique for increasing accuracy from a collection of base predictors.
PLS (Partial Least Squares regression) is introduced into an automatic estimation of fundamental stellar spectral parameters. It extracts the most correlative spectral component to the parameters (T-eff, log g and [Fe/H]), and sets up a linear regression function from spectra to the corresponding parameters. Considering the properties of stellar spectra and the PLS algorithm, we present a piecewise PLS regression method for estimation of stellar parameters, which is composed of one PLS model for T-eff, and seven PLS models for log g and [Fe[H] estimation. Its performance is investigated by large experiments on flux calibrated spectra and continuum normalized spectra at different signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) and resolutions. The results show that the piecewise PLS method is robust for spectra at the medium resolution of 0.23 nm. For low resolution 0.5 nm and I nm spectra, it achieves competitive results at higher SNR. Experiments using ELODIE spectra of 0.23 nm resolution illustrate that our piecewise PLS models trained with MILES spectra are efficient for O similar to G stars: for flux calibrated spectra, the systematic offsets are 3.8%, 0.14 dex, and -0.09 dex for T-eff, log g and [Fe/H], with error scatters of 5.2%, 0.44 dex and 0.38 dex, respectively; for continuum normalized spectra, the systematic offsets are 3.8%, 0.12 dex, and -0.13 dex for T-eff, log g and (Fe/H], with error scatters of 5.2%, 0.49 dex and 0.41 dex, respectively. The PLS method is rapid, easy to use and does not rely as strongly on the tightness of a parameter grid of templates to reach high precision as Artificial Neural Networks or minimum distance methods do.
The atmospheric conditions above Dome A, a currently unmanned location at the highest point on the Antarctic plateau, are uniquely suited to astronomy. For certain types of astronomy Dome A is likely to be the best location on the planet, and this has motivated the development of the Plateau Observatory (PLATO). PLATO was deployed to Dome A in early 2008. It houses a suite of purpose-built site-testing instruments designed to quantify the benefits of Dome A site for astronomy, and science instruments designed to take advantage of the observing conditions. The PLATO power generation and control system is designed to provide continuous power and heat, and a high-reliability command and communications platform for these instruments. PLATO has run and collected data throughout the winter 2008 season completely unattended. Here we present a detailed description of the power generation, power control, thermal management, instrument interface, and communications systems for PLATO, and an overview of the system performance for 2008.
With recent technological advances in wide field survey astronomy and implementation of several large-scale astronomical survey proposals (e.g. SDSS, 2dF and LAMOST), celestial spectra are becoming very abundant and rich Therefore, research on automated classification methods based on celestial spectra has been attracting more and more attention in recent years. Feature extraction is a fundamental problem in automated spectral classification, which not only influences the difficulty and complexity of the problem, but also determines the performance of the designed classifying system. The available methods of feature extraction for spectra classification are usually unsupervised, e. g. principal components analysis (PCA), wavelet transform (WT), artificial neural networks (ANN) and Rough Set theory. These methods extract features not by their capability to classify spectra, but by some kind of power to approximate the original celestial spectra. Therefore, the extracted features by these methods usually are not the best ones for classification. In the present work, the authors pointed out the necessary to investigate supervised feature extraction by analyzing the characteristics of the spectra classification research in available literature and the limitations of unsupervised feature extracting methods. And the authors also studied supervised feature extracting based on relevance vector machine (RVM) and its application in Seyfert spectra classification. RVM is a recently introduced method based on Bayesian methodology, automatic relevance determination (ARD), regularization technique and hierarchical priors structure. By this method, the authors can easily fuse the information in training data, the authors' prior knowledge and belief in the problem, etc. And RVM could effectively extract the features and reduce the data based on classifying capability. Extensive experiments show its superior performance in dimensional reduction and feature extraction for Seyfert classification.
Background: Protein inter-residue contacts play a crucial role in the determination and prediction of protein structures. Previous studies on contact prediction indicate that although template-based consensus methods outperform sequence-based methods on targets with typical templates, such consensus methods perform poorly on new fold targets. However, we find out that even for new fold targets, the models generated by threading programs can contain many true contacts. The challenge is how to identify them.
In this paper, we discuss coordination problems of a group of autonomous agents, including the target aggregation to a convex set and the state agreement. The aggregation of the whole agent group, consisting of leaders (informed agents) and followers, to a given set is investigated with switching interconnection topologies described by the connectivity assumptions on the joint topology in the time interval [t, + infinity) for any time t, and then the state agreement problem is studied in a similar way. An approach based on set stability and limit set analysis is given to study the multi-agent convergence problems. With the help of graph theory and convex analysis, coordination conditions are obtained in some important cases, and the results show that simple local rules can make the networked agents with first-order nonlinear individual dynamics achieve desired collective behaviors. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this article, we introduce some recent research trends within the field of adaptive/approximate dynamic programming (ADP), including the variations on the structure of ADP schemes, the development of ADP algorithms and applications of ADP schemes. For ADP algorithms, the point of focus is that iterative algorithms of ADP can be sorted into two classes: one class is the iterative algorithm with initial stable policy; the other is the One Without the requirement of initial stable policy It is generally believed that the latter one has less computation at the cost of missing the guarantee of system stability during iteration process. In addition, many recent papers have provided convergence analysis associated with the algorithms developed. Furthermore, we point out some topics for future Studies.
The consensus problem of multi-agent systems has attracted wide attention from researchers in recent years, following the initial work of Jadbabaie et al. on the analysis of a simplified Vicsek model. While the original Vicsek model contains noise effects, almost all the existing theoretical results on consensus problem, however, do not take the noise effects into account. The purpose of this paper is to initiate a study of the consensus problems under noise disturbances. First, the class of multi-agent systems under study is transformed into a general time-varying system with noise. Then, for such a system, the equivalent relationships are established among (i) robust consensus, (ii) the positivity of the second smallest eigenvalue of a weighted Laplacian matrix, and (iii) the joint connectivity of the associated dynamical neighbor graphs. Finally, this basic equivalence result is shown to be applicable to several classes of concrete multi-agent models with noise.
A projection neural network with time-varying delays is proposed for solving linear variational inequalities. By the theory of functional differential equation and the linear matrix inequality technique, the proposed neural network is proved to be globally exponentially stable. The obtained results complement and extend the previously known work. (C) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
For the studies on quantitative structure-activity/property relationships (QSAR/QSPR) of hydroxyl acids and amino acids, the algorithm of chirality product P was introduced : P = (1 - b/a) (1 - c/b) (1 - a/c) (1 - a/d), where a, b, c, and d are the values of chirality indices cA(m) and (m)x. To take the values derived based on above indices as the parameters, the relationships between the structures of 16 hydroxyl acids and amino acids and their chiral high-pressure thin-layer chromatographic data have been observed. For verifying the model obtained by using artificial neural networks, the method of cross-validation has been used. The results show that the prediction model is stable, and much better than that obtained by Using Multiple regression analysis.
Enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose was highly complex because of the unclear enzymatic mechanism and many factors that affect the heterogeneous system. Therefore, it is difficult to build a theoretical model to study cellulose hydrolysis by cellulase. Artificial neural network (ANN) was used to simulate and predict this enzymatic reaction and compared with the response surface model (RSM). The independent variables were cellulase amount X(1), substrate concentration X(2), and reaction time X(3), and the response variables were reducing sugar concentration Y(1) and transformation rate of the raw material Y(2). The experimental results showed that ANN was much more suitable for studying the kinetics of the enzymatic hydrolysis than RSM. During the simulation process, relative errors produced by the ANN model were apparently smaller than that by RSM except one and the central experimental points. During the prediction process, values produced by the ANN model were much closer to the experimental values than that produced by RSM. These showed that ANN is a persuasive tool that can be used for studying the kinetics of cellulose hydrolysis catalyzed by cellulase.
In this paper, the mathematical theory of fuzzy probability measure (FPMs) is used for the problems of rock mass displacements and deformation due to underground excavation, especially mining in soft rock strata. A fuzzy system model is developed for the movement and deformation of rock mass on the basis of the assumption that the displacement and deformation of rock mass is a fuzzy event, and from this model theoretical formulas are derived for calculating the rock mass displacement due to underground excavation. The theories of both the two and three-dimensional problems are developed and are applied to the analysis of ground movements due to underground mining. The agreement of the theoretical results with the field measurements shows that fuzzy system model is satisfactory and the formulae obtained are valid and thus can be effectively used for predicting the displacements and deformations due to underground mining in soft rock strata and the safety evaluation of the buildings on the ground surface. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
"One person's noise is another person's signal" (Knorr, E., Ng, R. (1998). Algorithms for mining distance-based outliers in large datasets. In Proceedings of the 24th VLDB conference, New York (pp. 392-403)). In recent years, much attention has been given to the problem of outlier detection, whose aim is to detect outliers - objects which behave in an unexpected way or have abnormal properties. Detecting such outliers is important for many applications such as criminal activities in electronic commerce, computer intrusion attacks, terrorist threats, agricultural pest infestations, etc. And outlier detection is critically important in the information-based society. In this paper, we discuss some issues about outlier detection in rough set theory which emerged about 20 years ago, and is nowadays a rapidly developing branch of artificial intelligence and soft computing. First, we propose a novel definition of outliers in information systems of rough set theory - sequence-based outliers. An algorithm to find such outliers in rough set theory is also given. The effectiveness of sequence-based method for outlier detection is demonstrated on two publicly available databases. Second, we introduce traditional distance-based outlier detection to rough set theory and discuss the definitions of distance metrics for distance-based outlier detection in rough set theory. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The problem addressed in this paper is the representation and reconfiguration of the group configurations assembled by wheel-manipulator robots. The wheel-manipulator robot as a module, which can independently perform the actions of locomotion and manipulation, possesses the properties of the postural orientation and the locomotive direction. The group configurations of these robots can be reconfigured through changing the connection between them. The aim of the reconfiguration is to generate better configurations adapting to the environment. The module state vector is proposed to represent the state of the asymmetric robotic module while the configuration state matrix is introduced to represent the group configuration of these robots. This approach supports transformation operation for triggering the elementary motions of the robot and reconfiguration between group configurations. The algorithms are proposed for assembling optimally the configuration of individual modules and for transforming optimally the configurations of the robots. Their validity is evaluated and demonstrated through numerical simulations.
Uncertain delayed genetic regulatory networks are investigated from an adaptive filtering approach based on an adaptive synchronization setting. For an unknown regulatory network with time delay and uncertain noise disturbance, several adaptive laws are derived to ensure the stochastic stability of the error states between the unknown network and the estimated model. The novelty lies in the fact that the designed adaptive laws are independent of the unknown system states and parameters, requiring only the output and structure of the underlying network. A representative simulation example is given to verify the effectiveness of the theoretical results.
Single module of the reconfigurable robots with independent manipulation can perform the actions of locomotion and manipulation. In conformity with the request for achieving autonomous operation in the unstructurized environment instead of fixed operation in the structurized environment, these robots are applied in the complicated and dangerous environment. The existing researches on the configuration theory focus on the reconfigurable robots with limited locomotion and the ones with independent locomotion, not being applicable to the reconfigurable robots with independent manipulation. The vector configuration is put forward, the research content of which contains the topology and locomotion direction of configuration, the posture and orientation and connection relation between modules. Module state vector and configuration state matrix are proposed for representation methodology for the swarm configuration of these reconfigurable robots, which supports transformation operation to represent and trigger behavior motion of the module and reconfiguration between configurations. Optimization algorithm of assembly reconfiguration applying workload as the optimization target is presented, as well as optimization algorithm of transformation reconfiguration applying the integration of posture orientation workload and connection workload. The result of optimization is the relation of state transformation between the initial configuration and the object one as the basic of reconfiguration plan and control.
The three fundamental parameters of stellar atmosphere, i. e. the effective temperature, the surface gravity, and the metallic, determine the continuum and spectral lines in the stellar spectrum. With the development of the modern telescopes such as SDSS, LAMOST projects, the great voluminous spectra demand to explore automatic celestial spectral analysis methods. It is most significant for Galaxy research to develop automatic methods determining the fundamental parameters from stellar spectra data. Two non-linear regression algorithms, kernel least squared regression (KLSR) and kernel PCA regression (KPCR), are proposed for estimating the three parameters in the present paper. The linear regression models, LSR and PCR, are extended to non-linear regression by using a kernel function for the stellar parameter estimation from spectra. Extensive experiments on low resolution spectra data show: (1) KLSR and KPCR methods realize the regression from spectrum to the effective temperature and gravity. KLSR is sensitive to the noise while KPCR is robust than the former. (2) For the effective temperature estimation, the two algorithms perform similarly; and for the gravity and metallic estimation, the KPCR is superior to the KLSR and the NPR(Non-parameter regression); (3) KLSR and KPCR methods are simple and efficient for the stellar spectral parameter estimation.
In financial time series forecasting, the problem that we often encounter is how to increase the prediction accuracy as possible using the financial data with noise. In this study, we discuss the use of supervised neural networks as a meta-learning technique to design a financial time series forecasting system to solve this problem. In this system, some data sampling techniques are first used to generate different training subsets from the original datasets. In terms of these different training subsets, different neural networks with different initial conditions or training algorithms are then trained to formulate different prediction models, i.e., base models. Subsequently, to improve the efficiency of predictions of metamodeling, the principal component analysis (PCA) technique is used as a pruning tool to generate an optimal set of base models. Finally, a neural-network-based nonlinear metamodel can be produced by learning from the selected base models, so as to improve the prediction accuracy. For illustration and verification purposes, the proposed metamodel is conducted on four typical financial time series. Empirical results obtained reveal that the proposed neural-network-based nonlinear metamodeling technique is a very promising approach to financial time series forecasting. (c) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Quantitative structure-property relationship (QSPR) investigation was performed for the study of olfactory thresholds of pyrazine derivatives. Descriptors calculated from the molecular structures alone were used to represent the characteristics of the compounds. The six molecular descriptors selected by the best mutilinear regression (BMLR) in CODESSA were used as inputs for support vector machine (SVM) and radial basis function neural networks (RNFNN). The root mean squared errors [RMS) of logarithm of olfactory thresholds (p.p.m.) for the training, predicted and overall datasets were 0.5674, 0.6601 and 0.5860 for BMLR, 0.4720, 0.6861 and 0.5194 for RBFNN, and 0.5242, 0.6466 and 0.5495 for SVM, respectively. The prediction results were in agreement with the experimental values. The QSPR models provide a rapid, simple and valid way to predict the odour threshold of pyrazine derivatives. Copyright (C) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
This paper presents a new type of control framework for dynamical stochastic systems, called statistic tracking control (STC). The system considered is general and non-Gaussian and the tracking objective is the statistical information of a given target probability density function (pdf), rather than a deterministic signal. The control aims at making the statistical information of the output pdfs to follow those of a target pdf. For such a control framework, a variable structure adaptive tracking control strategy is first established using two-step neural network models. Following the B-spline neural network approximation to the integrated performance function, the concerned problem is transferred into the tracking of given weights. The dynamic neural network (DNN) is employed to identify the unknown nonlinear dynamics between the control input and the weights related to the integrated function. To achieve the required control objective, an adaptive controller based on the proposed DNN is developed so as to track a reference trajectory. Stability analysis for both the identification and tracking errors is developed via the use of Lyapunov stability criterion. Simulations are given to demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed approach.
We prove several basic properties for difference ascending chains, including a necessary and sufficient condition for an ascending chain to be the characteristic set of its saturation ideal and a necessary and sufficient condition for an ascending chain to be the characteristic set of a reflexive prime ideal. Based on these properties, we propose an algorithm to decompose the zero set of a finite set of difference polynomials into the union of zero sets of certain ascending chains. This decomposition algorithm is implemented and used to solve the perfect ideal membership problem, and to prove certain difference identities automatically. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper addresses the design, construction, and motion control of an adjustable Scotch yoke mechanism generating desired kinematics for dolphin-like robots. Since dolphins propel themselves by dorsoventral oscillations following a sinusoidal path with alterable amplitudes, a two-motor-driven Scotch yoke mechanism is adopted as the primary propulsor to produce sinusoidal oscillations, where a certain combination of a leading screw mechanism and a rack and pinion mechanism driven by the slave motor are incorporated to independently change the length of the crank actuated by the master motor. Meanwhile, the output of the Scotch yoke, i.e., reciprocating motion, is converted into the up-and-down oscillations via a rack and gear transmission. A DSP-based built-in motion control scheme is then brought forth and applied to achieve dolphin-like propulsion. Preliminary tests, in a robotics context, confirm the feasibility of the devised mechanism severing as a dedicated propulsor for bio-inspired movements. (c) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
An automated spectral classification technique for large sky surveys is proposed. We firstly perform spectral line matching to determine redshift candidates for an observed spectrum, and then estimate the spectral class by measuring the similarity between the observed spectrum and the shifted templates for each redshift candidate. As a byproduct of this approach, the spectral redshift can also be obtained with high accuracy. Compared with some approaches based on computerized learning methods in the literature, the proposed approach needs no training, which is time-consuming and sensitive to selection of the training set. Both simulated data and observed spectra are used to test the approach; the results show that the proposed method is efficient, and it can achieve a correct classification rate as high as 92.9%, 97.9% and 98.8% for stars, galaxies and quasars, respectively.
The Loess Plateau in China constitutes in important source area for both water and sediments to the Yellow River. Thus, improved prediction techniques of rainfall may lead to better estimation of discharge and sediment content for the Yellow River. Consequently. the objective of this study was to establish better links between rainfall of the Loess Plateau in China and sea surface temperature (SST) in the Pacific Ocean. Results showed that there is a strong lagged correlation between and SST and rainfall. The SST for Micronesia and areas South of the Aleutian Islands showed significant correlations (s.f. < 0.001: 99.9%) with rainfall over the dryer region of the Loess Plateau for a lag of 4 to 6 months. The SST over the equator On the cast Pacific Ocean also showed significant negative correlation with rainfall. Low and middle latitude areas (S10-20 degrees and around 30 degrees) of the south-east Pacific Ocean displayed significant positive and negative correlation with rainfall on the semiarid Loess Plateau. The differenced SST values (positive SST minus negative SST) increased these correlation,, with rainfall. An artificial neural network (ANN) model was used to predict Summer rainfall from the differenced SST during, the spring period. The correlation between predicted and observed months), rainfall was in general larger than 0.7. This indicates that major annual rainfall (during summer season) can be predicted with good accuracy using the suggested approach. Copyright (D 2008 John Wiley & Sons. Ltd.
Increasing evidence has been gathered for p53-dependent apoptosis, but it is still unclear how p53 initiates apoptosis by employing its transcriptional program. Pair-wise interactions of p53 with expression of other genes fail to predict p53 levels or rate of apoptosis. A more sophisticated approach, using neural networks, permits prediction of interaction among three or more genes (p53, bax, and ING1). These interactions are decidedly nonlinear. Careful measurements and advanced mathematical treatments will permit us not only to understand how expression of pro- and anti-apoptotic genes is regulated, but also to integrate cross-platform and cross-experimental data for the validation of predicted interactions.
There exist some fundamental and yet challenging problems in pinning control of complex networks: (1) What types of pinning schemes may be chosen for a given complex network to realize synchronization? (2) What kinds of controllers may be designed to ensure the network synchronization? (3) How large should the coupling strength be used in a given complex network to achieve synchronization? This paper addresses these technique questions. Surprisingly, it is found that a network under a typical framework can realize synchronization subject to any linear feedback pinning scheme by using adaptive tuning of the coupling strength. In addition, it is found that the nodes with low degrees should be pinned first when the coupling strength is small, which is contrary to the common view that the most-highly-connected nodes should be pinned first. Furthermore, it is interesting to find that the derived pinning condition with controllers given in a high-dimensional setting can be reduced to a low-dimensional condition without the pinning controllers involved. Finally, simulation examples of scale-free networks are given to verify the theoretical results. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A new model is proposed to estimate the significant wave heights with ERS-1/2 scatterometer data. The results show that the relationship between wave parameters and radar backscattering cross section is similar to that between wind and the radar backscattering cross section. Therefore, the relationship between significant wave height and the radar backscattering cross section is established with a neural network algorithm, which is, if the average wave period is <= 7s, the root mean square of significant wave height retrieved from ERS-1/2 data is 0.51 m, or 0.72 m if it is >7s otherwise.
In this paper, an evolving least squares support vector machine (LSSVM) learning paradigm with a mixed kernel is proposed to explore stock market trends. In the proposed learning paradigm, a genetic algorithm (GA), one of the most popular evolutionary algorithms (EAs), is first used to select input features for LSSVM learning, i.e., evolution of input features. Then, another GA is used for parameters optimization of LSSVM, i.e., evolution of algorithmic parameters. Finally, the evolving LSSVM learning paradigm with best feature subset, optimal parameters, and a mixed kernel is used to predict stock market movement direction in terms of historical data series. For illustration and evaluation purposes, three important stock indices, S&P 500 Index, Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) Index, and New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Index, are used as testing targets. Experimental results obtained reveal that file proposed evolving LSSVM can produce some forecasting models that tire easier to be interpreted by using a small number of predictive features and are more efficient than other parameter optimization methods. Furthermore, the produced forecasting model can significantly outperform other forecasting models listed in this paper in terms of the hit ratio. These findings imply that the proposed evolving LSSVM learning paradigm can be used as a promising approach to stock market tendency exploration.
This paper introduces a novel complex network model to evaluate the reputation of virtual organizations. By using the Lyapunov function and linear matrix inequality approaches, the local synchronization of the proposed model is further investigated. Here, the local synchronization is defined by the inner synchronization within a group which does not mean the synchronization between different groups. Moreover, several sufficient conditions are derived to ensure the local synchronization of the proposed network model. Finally, several representative examples are given to show the effectiveness of the proposed methods and theories.
To extract the maximum power from a photovoltaic (PV) energy system, the real-time maximum power point (MPP) of the PV array must be tracked closely. The non-linear and time-variant characteristics of the PV array and the non-linear and non-minimum phase characteristics of a boost converter make it difficult to track the MPP for traditional control strategies. We propose a fuzzy neural network controller (FNNC), which combines the reasoning capability of fuzzy logical systems and the learning capability of neural networks, to track the MPP. With a derived learning algorithm, the parameters of the FNNC are updated adaptively. A gradient estimator based on a radial basis function neural network is developed to provide the reference information to the FNNC. Simulation results show that the proposed control algorithm provides much better tracking performance compared with the fuzzy logic control algorithm.
To study quantitative structure-activity/property relationships (QSAR/QSPR) for hydroxy acids and amino acids, the distance matrices and the augmented distance matrices have been constructed to derive the chiral parameters. Several regression results obtained by using these parameters have been achieved. Chiral topological indices eA(m), by extending A(m), indices, chiral product parameters as well as their combinations were used to explain the variance in thin-layer chromatographic indices. For the same purpose, artificial neural networks were applied, and the results were improved obviously. The methods suggest that this research can be used for QSAR/QSPR extensively.
In this Letter, almost periodic Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with delay is studied. By constructing appropriate linear auxiliary equations, sufficient conditions are given to guarantee the existence of almost periodic solution. Moreover, global exponential stability on almost periodic solution is investigated by Lyapunov method. At last, an example is given to show the effectiveness of results in this Letter. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The problem of the stability analysis of neural networks with time-varying delay is considered in this Letter. By constructing a new augmented Lyapunov functional which contains a triple-integral term, an improved delay-dependent stability criterion is derived in terms of LMI using the free-weighting matrices method. The rate-range of the delay is also considered in the derivation of the criterion. Numerical examples are presented to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper presents a novel method to classify human facial movement based on multi-channel forehead bio-signals. Five face movements form three face regions: forehead, eye and jaw are selected and classified in back propagation artificial neural networks (BPANN) by using a combination of transient and steady features from EMG and EOG waveforms. The identified face movements are subsequently employed to generate five control commands for controlling a simulated Intelligent Wheelchair. A human-machine interface (HMI) is designed to map movement patterns into corresponding control commands via a logic control table. The simulation result shows the feasibility and performance of the proposed system, which can be extended into real-world applications as a control interface for disabled and elderly users.
This paper focuses on technical endeavors to develop bio-inspired dolphin-like robots, involving dynamic modeling, mechanical design, as well as motion control. The inspiration and motivation comes from the remarkable swimming abilities of dolphins together with some promising applications in aquatic environments. The thrust in dolphin-like movements in a robotics context can be generated by the up-down-motioned fluke, while the turning is achieved by left-right-sided deflections. Based upon three generations of link-based robotic prototypes, experiences and lessons accumulated in the course of producing these accomplishments are summarized, which provide insight into unraveling the efficient and agile propulsive mechanisms associated with Gray's paradox. Comparative results are finally offered to demonstrate significant differences between biological dolphin and actual robots.
This paper addresses a platform-based design for a bio-inspired amphibious robot well-suited for multi-mode motion both on ground and under water. It concerns mechanical design, hardware implementation, software design, as well as ADAMS-based modeling. By introducing well-established software and hardware architectures, an ARM+uC/OS-II centered embedded control system is formed. With the sensor subsystem processing the gathered robotic and environmental information effectively, different motion modes will be adopted under dynamically changing environments. Preliminary testing partly verifies the feasibility of the platform-oriented, amphibious robotic prototype.
To solve the level-adjusting problem of high accurate and costly payloads when loading and unloading, a rope-driven self-leveling device is developed, and a neuro-fuzzy controller is proposed. After a brief introduction of the configuration characteristics of the device and the fundamentals of neuro-fuzzy control, the construction of the neuro-fuzzy controller is set up, in which the angles of two diagonal inclinations which are measured from the two angle sensors are chosen as input variables, and the changes of two linear motion units' positions are the control variables. The neuro-fuzzy controller, whose rules are constructed based on human's regulating experience, was tuned by a hybrid algorithm, which is a combination of the least square estimate (LSE) method and the back-propagation (BP) algorithm. Experimental results show that the proposed neuro-fuzzy controller can achieve the control objective with high accuracy of regulation and short adjusting time, and is easily applied to the practical device.
The bidding strategies based on energy-saving generation dispatching pattern are dynamic and complex problems. It is very difficult to analyze and compute with the traditional mathematical methods, which is particularly conspicuous in the middle- or long-term transactions. This paper proposes a model about the optimized middle or long-term bidding strategy in two-tiers electricity market, which is based on the optimal power flow (OPF). In this model, uncertainties in the outside world are regarded as the agent (Agent) of "external environment". Under the condition, the agent selects a viable strategy by environment evaluating and guides the purpose of the optimal production by learning from past experiences and competitors' behaviors. The adaptability and superiority of this model are tested on a standard IEEE-5 bus 6 notes test system.
Grade estimation is one of the most complicated aspects in mining. Its complexity originates from scientific uncertainty. This paper introduces a nonlinear Wavelet Neural Network (WNN) approach to the problem of ore grade estimation. The nonlinear WNN method combing the properties of the wavelet transform and the advantages of Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) provide fast and reliable ore grade estimation, with minimum assumptions and minimum requirements for modeling skills. The WNN grade estimation method has been tested on a number of real deposits. The result shows that the WNN has advantages of rapid training, generality and accuracy grade estimation approach. It can provide with a very fast and robust alternative to the existing time-consuming methodologies for ore grade estimation.
Mispronunciation detection is one of the vital tasks of the CALL (Computer Assisted Language Learning) systems. Many methods have been introduced to accomplish this task. However, few of them have addressed the detection task on confusable phones. In this paper, phone-level classifiers are utilized to improve the detection performance on the confusable phones. Features of the classifiers are posterior probability vectors calculated from their corresponding acoustic models. Moreover, confusion matrix is also extracted and incorporated to calculate derivatives of the posterior probability vectors. Experiments on our Mandarin database validate the effectiveness of our proposed method, compared with the commonly used posterior probability and phone dependent thresholds methods.
This paper deals with an improved design scheme for an amphibious robot inspired by various amphibian principles in animal kingdom. Considering the propulsive features of existing amphibian modes synthetically, a novel hybrid propulsive mechanism that integrates fish-like swimming with wheel-paddle-fin movements is proposed. The robot is able to implement speedy and efficient fish-like or dolphin-like swimming and to perform flexible wheel-like terrestrial movements, which can switch between these two patterns by a specialized swivelling device. Critical engineering realization issues involving morphological optimization, buoyancy calculation and waterproof sealing are discussed. In particular, the design philosophy of modularity has been incorporated into the development of the robotic prototype. Preliminary testing partially validates the feasibility of multimode gaits both on land and in water.
Production scheduling is critical for manufacturing system. Dispatching rules are usually applied dynamically to schedule the job in the dynamic job-shop. The paper presents an adaptive iterative scheduling algorithm that operates dynamically to schedule the job in the dynamic job-shop. In order to get adaptive behavior, the reinforcement learning system is done with the phased Q-learning by defining the intermediate state pattern. We convert the scheduling problem into reinforcement learning problems by constructing a multi-phase dynamic programming process, including the definition of state representation, actions and the reward function. We use five heuristic rules, CNP-CR, CNP-FCFS, CNP-EFT, CNP-EDD and CNP-SPT, as actions and the scheduling objective: minimization of maximum completion time. So a complex dynamic scheduling problem can be divided into a sequential sub-problem easier to solve. We also analyze the time and the solution and present some experimental results.
The static coupling of multi-axis force sensor is a major influencing factor to its measuring precision. Aiming at resolving the disadvantages such as low decoupling precision of the traditional method, we put forward a linear decoupling method based on neural network. Firstly, this paper analyzes the reasons why coupling exists in the multi-axis force sensor, and then according to this phenomenon, this method gains a weight matrix by using the associational function of the linear model of the neural networks and the matrix can reflect the coupling force of different dimensions correctly. Comparing to the traditional static decoupling method, this method improves the precision of decoupling greatly. In the end of this paper, experiments and traditional decoupling method are used to compare and prove the effectiveness of this method.
A symbolic-based motion control method for wheeled mobile robots is put forward in this paper. Wheeled mobile robots, which are characterized by the nonholonomic constraints, are particularly difficult to control since real environment may be full of obstacles. Traditional methods have to resort to analysis and design at the level of individual sensors and actuators. As a result, the richness of the set of mappings from sensor to actuator signals constitutes a great challenge in determining a suitable control law to steer the wheeled mobile robot. In view of those considerations, a symbolic-based control method is presented, in which control procedures have a natural, linguistic flavor. In this method, different control procedures can be generated from a finite set composed of symbols which correspond to different control actions. It is obvious that this method allows one to design feedback control laws at the level of strings and primitives, rather than at the level of sensors and actuators. Simulation results show that the proposed method is effective for the control of wheeled mobile robots.
A new concept named "Function Sector" is proposed in this paper, aiming to give an efficient implementation for the laser based autonomous navigation of mobile robots under complex outdoor terrain conditions. First, one laser scan can be partitioned into two kinds of Function Sectors: "Guidance Sector" and "Inspecting Sector". Then, the Function Sectors are reconstructed following a new reconstruction strategy to form a virtual guidance scan, while combining the 2.5D information into account. Finally, an improved Angle Potential Field Method is applied on the virtual guidance scan to generate the navigation orders. The new algorithm is tested on a mobile robot, and the experimental results prove the distinguishing validity of our method explicitly.
The translational oscillations with a rotational proof-mass actuator (TORA) is a well-known benchmark for examining the advantages and limitations of different nonlinear control design techniques. In this paper, a single-input-rule-modules (SIRMs) based type-2 fuzzy logic control scheme is proposed for this nonlinear multivariable system. And, genetic algorithms (GAs) are adopted to determine the parameters and to improve the performance of the SIRMs based type-2 fuzzy logic controller (SIRM-T2FLC). At last, simulations and comparisons are given to demonstrate the effectiveness, robustness and superiority of the proposed controller under three circumstances: normal case, the disturbance existing case, and the parameter varying case. From the design process and comparisons, it can be seen that: 1) this SIRMs based type-2 fuzzy control scheme can alleviate the difficulty to design conventional type-2 fuzzy logic controllers (T2FLCs) for this multivariable TORA system, 2) the SIRM-T2FLC is much easier to design and understand compared with conventional nonlinear control strategies for the TORA system, 3) better performance can be achieved.
A basic problem of intelligent systems is choosing adaptive action to perform in a non-stationary environment. Due to the combinatorial complexity of actions, agent cannot possibly consider every option available to it at every instant in time. It needs to find good policies that dictate optimum actions to perform in each situation. This paper proposes an algorithm, called UQ-learning, to better solve action selection problem by using reinforcement learning and utility function. Reinforcement learning can provide the information of environment and utility function is used to balance Exploration-Exploitation dilemma. We implement our method with maze navigation tasks in a non-stationary environment. The results of simulated experiments show that utility-based reinforcement learning approach is more effective and efficient compared with Q-learning and Recency-Based Exploration.
In this work, we present a study of nonlinear modelings based on RBF networks. The incorporation of prior knowledge in modelings is our specific concern for adding transparency and improving the performance of the networks. We focus on the prior knowledge within the class of linear constraints, which includes both linear equality and linear inequality constraints. Different with other existing modeling approaches using Lagrange multiplier technique, we propose a sub-model using the same RBF network configuration to impose the constraints. Two benefits are gained from this modeling approach in comparison with the conventional REF networks. First, the transparency is added through a structural way with a higher degree of explicitness than an algorithm means. Second, on linear equality constraint problems, the proposed approach is able to obtain the learning solutions directly without involving iteration processes. Numerical results from three benchmark examples confirm the beneficial aspects on the proposed modeling approach.
Load forecasting is a traditional research field of power system, under normal circumstance, there are great similarities between the similar days, but under the condition of special days and extreme weather, load prediction has some uncertainty Extraction model for load characteristics of special days and extreme weather was proposed in this paper, coding strategy and genetic operation of traditional genetic algorithm were redefined in the model, the relational rules about relation between power load special days and extreme weather were extracted At the same time, the credibility of these rules was proven by practice
As one of the renewable energy, the absorption and utilization of wave energy is always an important research field home and abroad, and energy absorption efficiency is the key. A wave energy absorption system based on inertial pendulum is presented, and dynamics equations are established. Artificial Neural network with learning rate adaptation is adopted to model in time domain. The results obtained by simulation software and by BP neural network are compared, which validate the method used to be correct and make basis on future research.
To improve the control precision of robots, the control method of adaptive sliding mode for robots was presented based on fuzzy support vector machines. The sliding mode control has complete adaptability to system disturbance and siring in sliding mode, which was used to automatically track the uncertainty of system parameters and external disturbance. Fuzzy support vector machines have strong treatment of nonlinear signal and generalization ability, which was used to reduce the chattering in sliding mode control. The FSVM controller parameters were optimized by hybrid learning algorithm, which combines least square algorithm with improved genetic algorithm, to get the optimal control performance with the controlled object. The simulation results of a two-link robotic manipulator demonstrated that the control method designed gets tracking effect with high precision and speed, as well as reduces chattering of control under the condition of existing model error and external disturbance.
In this paper, a mechanism type synthesis is carried out for a class of mobile parallel robots (MPR) based on a systematic enumeration method, and the feasible configurations for the MPR are obtained. Then the inverse kinematics for the two typical mechanisms of PPRS and PPSR are derived. By a numerical approach, the workspace reachable in the Z-direction and the orientation workspace are obtained. The dexterity characteristics over the entire workspace of the proposed mechanism are investigated based on their condition number index. A comparison is given between the two typical mechanisms. This work provides a basis for the design of MPR mechanisms.
This paper presents a practical topological navigation system for indoor mobile robots, making use of a novel artificial landmark which is called MR (Mobile Robot) code. This new kind of paper-made landmarks can be easily attached on the ceilings or on the walls. Localization algorithms for the two cases are given respectively. An approaching control algorithm and an extended line tracking algorithm are also described, which a robot employs to approach its current goal. A simple topological navigation algorithm is proposed. Experiment results show the effectiveness of the method in real environment.
An image feature extraction method based on Swarm Intelligence is used in the preprocessing of joint image in joint transform correlator. The Swarm Intelligence based image processing method is superior to the conventional image processing method in its robust, flexible, fault tolerant, scalable, and highly parallelizable characteristic. The output results from the classical JTC without image preprocessing and the JTC with Sobel operator based joint image feature extraction are compared with that of the JTC when using the Swarm Intelligence to extract the feature of joint image. Experiment results show the performance improvement of JTC using the feature extraction method based on Swarm Intelligence.
In this paper, we present our work on dynamic programming, which is referred as epsilon-adaptive dynamic programming, for discrete-time system with discount factor 0 < gamma < 1 in the performance cost. A single controller, epsilon-optimal controller mu(epsilon)* which is determined from an epsilon-optimal Cost V-epsilon*, is obtained to approximate the optimal controller. The epsilon-optimal controller mu(epsilon)* can always control the state to approach the equilibrium state, while the performance cost is close to the biggest lower bound of all performance costs within an error according to epsilon. An algorithm for finding the epsilon-optimal controller is developed and numerical experiments are given to illustrate the performance of the algorithm.
The article presents a helpful trial on the design of capsule robots' actuators. A harmless, controllable driving mechanism is proved promising both by finite element analysis and by experiments in reality. In brief, the distinct actuator has obvious advantages when applied to practice, and provides an encouraging, effective chance to machinize the capsule robot.
This paper is concerned with the problem of stabilization of the Roesser type discrete-time nonlinear 2-D system which plays an important role in many practical applications. Firstly, a discrete-time 2-D T-S fuzzy model is proposed to represent the underlying nonlinear 2-D system. Secondly, new non-quadratic stabilization conditions are proposed by applying a new parameter-dependent Lyapunov function, matrix transformation technique and relaxed technique for the underlying discrete-time 2-D T-S fuzzy system. Finally, a numerical example is provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed results.
A new laser scan matching algorithm is proposed in this paper. By constructing multiplex histograms, the new algorithm offers a simple way for importing geometrical features into the histogram method, obtaining more geometrical information from the laser scan data, and carrying out more accurate matching results. Also, an optimal maximum selection mechanism is employed to filter out the incorrect matching results, which further guarantees the matching precision. With the satisfactory matching results, the new algorithm shows a promising application prospect to the self-localization of robots. Experiments are performed to prove the feasibility and accuracy of the new algorithm.
In this paper a class of mobile parallel robots with the structural configuration of PPUU (Prismatic-Prismatic- Universal-Universal) is investigated in detail. Firstly a singularity analysis corresponding to different configured cases of the revolute axes of the robot's U-joint based on the screw theory is developed and a brief comparison of the four cases is carried out. Of all four configuration schemes, only PxPyUxEUFG can avoid a singularity by mechanism design rather than complicated trajectory control. Then the inverse kinematics to the PxPyUxEUFG mobile parallel robot is developed. By a numerical approach, the orientation workspace envelope is mapped. This work provides an analytical basis for the design of an M PR prototype.
Many applications call for robots to perform the tasks that the robot can accurately grasp and assemble many kinds of industrial parts. Using robots to perform these tasks can afford human safety as well as the high productivity. In this paper, an industrial robot system aiming to assemble the industrial parts with high precision is presented. The paper focuses on the design of the robot control system and the precise extraction of the position-and-orientation of the industrial parts. Finally, experiments are presented to show the efficiency of the system, in which sets of automotive parts, such as axletrees, bearings, pistons and pins are grasped from the conveyor and assembled together precisely.
This paper mainly concerns the intelligent control of a four-rope-driven level-adjustment device with constrained outputs. In the paper, an intelligent controller based on fuzzy systems is designed for the device to adjust eccentric payloads to level and keep the rope's tension balanced. The controller is composed of two sub-controllers, each of which deals with various situations by choosing different fuzzy rules. As the actuators adopted in the device can only move within a certain range, it is necessary to take their moving ranges into consideration. Actually, each control cycle includes two stages. At the first stage, the controller regulates the payload's diagonal joined with the constrained actuators. At the second stage, the controller adjusts the other diagonal. If the actuators joined with this diagonal are also constrained, the controller mainly regulates the payload's posture. Otherwise, the controller regulates the payload's angle as well as the ropes' tension simultaneously. Finally, the intelligent controller is used to control the four-rope-driven level-adjustment device, and gets satisfying results.
In traditional strategy based on Center Pattern Generator (CPG), stance phases and swing phases are always fixed and their durations equal to each other approximately. Few CPG models care about the control of the knee joints under quadrupeds. In view of these deficiencies, this paper presents a model which is used to generate trajectories both for hips and for knees. The model has two desirable properties relative to the conventions. First, the knee joints are integrated with the hip joints into the CPG model. Then, a selector can adjust the duration of the stance phases and of the swing phases. Further more, the idea of the selector isn't confined to a specific neural oscillator or an explicit model. Experiments demonstrate that the model is effective for legged robots control and its ratio of phases can be varied flexibly.
This paper addresses the problem of posture stabilization for a wheeled mobile robot with nonholonomic constraints. Due to the richness of mappings from sensor space to actuator signal space and the complexity of system and environment modeling, it becomes particularly difficult to select an appropriate control law for the posture stabilization problem. In this paper, we propose a novel approach based on Motion Description Language (MDL) for this problem. The method decomposes the control task into a finite collection of reactive behaviors and generates different control procedures through concatenation operation of predefined motion atoms. Each symbolic string defines an expected behavior while a complex control task can be achieved by combining several symbolic strings. As an illustration, parking problem of the wheeled mobile robot with nonholonomic constraint is studied and simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of this method.
Systems methodologies toward wicked problems or societal complex systems usually call for a collaborative problem solving process. The products (solutions) of that process refer to somewhat collective intelligence. In this paper, some technologies for collective intelligence, or so-called qualitative meta-synthesis of community consensus, are addressed. Two technologies, CorMap and iView, conduct exploratory analysis toward those topics or ideas created bottom-up and facilitate human-machine interaction by visualization of the analytical process based on different algorithms. Those technologies are oriented to support collaborative deliberation undertaken by Web 2.0 tools.
The study deems the CBR approach as a kind of problem-oriented spatial data mining method and provides case-based similarity and reasoning algorithms to extract knowledge from geographical data First, this paper provides problem-oriented method to represent and organize geographical cases Second, a rough set theory-based approach was employed to quantitatively retrieve these inherent spatial relationships. Third, a general model was then proposed to calculate the spatial similarity among geographic cases considering different spatial characteristics and relationships of geographical cases The CBR method was then tested by studying a typical geographic phenomenon, Results of the studies show that CBR method has its advantages in quantitatively analyzing spatial data as well as in solving geographical problems
In this paper, a new simultaneous locating and calibrating algorithm for the pseudolites based mobile robot navigation system is proposed. First, the calibrating and locating of pseudolites based mobile robot navigation system are modeled as a nonlinear filtering problem. Subsequently, an Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF) algorithm which is effective to deal with the uncertainties and nonlinearities in the observation and process model is suggested to solve the nonlinear filtering problem. Finally, the simuluation results with respect to the navigation systems composed of three pseudolites and one mobile robot verifies the feasible and validity of the new algorithm.
A Virtual Instrument (VI) based fuzzy control system for permanent magnet linear synchronous motor (PMLSM) drive is presented in this paper. Mathematic model of the PMLSM is presented and the stepper drive scheme is used in the position loop of PMLSM drive. To improve the performance of PMLSM drive, a LabVIEW based fuzzy controller (FC) is proposed for the position loop of PMLSM drive to deal with the dynamic uncertainty and external load effect. Simulation results demonstrated the feasibility of proposed approach.
Autonomous mobile robot is a hot research topic and attracts many interests due to that mobile robot has been or will be employed in various fields, such as space exploration, under water survey, industrial and military industries, service and medical applications, and so on. Wall following strategy can help the mobile robot to avoid deadlock caused by local minim and fulfill the given task effectively. Spiking Neural Networks (SNNs), the third generation of the neural networks, is suitable in the design of mobile robot behavior's controller. In this paper, a wall following controller based on SNNs for mobile robot is presented. Pulse frequency codes and pulse temporal coincidence detection codes are used in the proposed SNN controller. The designed controller can not only control the robot to follow the wall successfully, but also can be easily implemented.
Artificial neural networks are nonlinear dynamic systems which are constituted of abundant simple processing unites, their characteristics include parallel computing, memory distributing, self-learning and self-organization, etc. They are used to solve many artificial intelligence problems that are very difficult or impossible to be solved by traditional computer. Based on theory of the semiconductor neural computer, combinatorial logical design of floating-point operation for neuron hardware of the semiconductor neural computer is proposed in this paper. The experiment results validate its rationality.
This paper deals with the problem of exponential stability for a class of neutral-type networks with interval time-varying delays. An approach combining the Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional with linear matrix inequality (LMI) is taken in our study. The theoretical analysis and numerical simulations show that our results are effectiveness. It is interested that there is a relationship between the exponential convergence rates with the bound of maximum value of interval time-varying delays.
Based on the vector control method for PMSM, a parameter self-learning hybrid fuzzy controller was implemented to provide the speed control for the EV propulsion system with the purpose to obtain the maximum acceleration during starting and accelerating. A three-term fuzzy controller is implemented by simply using a two-term fuzzy control rule-base without any increase of rules. The method of fuzzy deduction based on phase plane had less computational burden, while the fuzzy inputs could be continuous. The control parameters are self-tuned by introducing a single neuron together with a back-propagation learning algorithm. This method has simpler structure and control algorithms and can be realized online easily. The simulation results and experiment results of 18kW PMSM for electric vehicle propulsion are given, the experiment results show that the electric vehicle with parameter self-learning hybrid fuzzy vector control system has excellent performances of starting, accelerating and cruising on road.
This paper proposes a neural network-based method for modeling vertical interconnect balls. The it equivalent circuit with lumped element was used to characterize the electrical performance of balls. The values of lumped elements were extracted from the full-wave simulate result, and the extracted data was used to train back-propagation (BP) neural networks to obtain the relationship between the lumped element values and the physical size of the balls. Then this model was used to estimate the electrical character of ball with other layout parameters.
Differential evolution (DE), a population-based multi-objective evolutionary algorithm, steers optimization search through swarm intelligence produced by co-operation and competition among individuals within the swarm. With its unique memory ability, DE can track the dynamics of the current search, adjust its search strategy accordingly, and achieve good global convergence and robustness without resorting to any information characteristic of the problem in question. DE proves exceptionally useful in solving complex optimization problems which cannot be solved by conventional mathematical programming methods. This paper applies DE to the multi-objective optimal allocation of water resources, treats the optimal allocation of water resources as a simulated biological evolution process, and conducts an optimal computation in a case study, which shows that the result of DE is both reasonable and efficient.
In geographical information engineering, height anomalies must be known in order to convert GPS ellipsoid heights into geodetic heights. There are many conversion models, such as polynomial, BP neural network and multi-quadrics fitting. Because the quasi-geoid is an irregular geometric object, every method has both advantages and disadvantages, and is appropriate to different conversion patterns. It is difficult to identify which conversion model is most suitable for a particular area. In order to obtain a more precise and reliable analytical result, the combined model based on least squares support vector machines (LSSVM) has been approached. Derived from statistical learning theory, LSSVM are learning systems that use a hypothesis space of linear function in a high dimensional feature space, trained with a learning algorithm from optimizations theory. As a result, the fitting ability of single models is significantly improved. The combined model still possesses the same important features as the single models. Examples are presented and the results are analyzed in detail to demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed methodology.
The case-based reasoning (CBR) becomes a novel paradigm that solves a new problem by remembering a previous similar situation and by reusing information and knowledge of that situation. However, the acquisition of case knowledge is a bottleneck within case-based reasoning. The use of rough set and data mining to discover knowledge from traditional database and to construct case base is desired. In this paper we discuss, in detail, the approach taken to acquire case knowledge. Rough set is used to preprocess the raw data that is noisy and redundant on the attribute. A Kohonen network is proposed to identify initial clusters within the data having been preprocessed. These clusters are then analyzed using C.45 and non-unique clusters are grouped to form concepts. Cases are then chosen from each of the identified concepts as well as outliers in the database. The results indicate that the proposed approach achieves a high reduction in the size of the case base.
A double-loop control system based on human-simulated intelligent control (HSIC) is designed using a mathematical model of a brushless direct current motor. The system includes a PI current controller and an HSIC speed controller, and controller parameters are set and optimized using an improved genetic algorithm. In the double-loop motor control system, a characteristic model-based multi-mode controller is adopted for the speed loop and a conventional PI controller is implemented for the current loop. The design method of the controller and its algorithm are presented. Compared with the double-loop motor subject to fuzzy control, neural-network control, adaptive PID control and conventional PID control, simulation results show the double-loop motor control system of the HSIC-based the brushless direct current motor has high dynamic and static performances as well as high adaptability and robustness.
This paper put forwards a corner detection solution and develops and builds a vision system depending upon the TMS320DM642 as the core, which can realize the image collection and display, implement the corner detection algorithm. Through the extended UART interfaces, this system can communicate with mobile robots of power lines. Corner coordinates obtained from the algorithm of this system can be used for extraction and matching of the image feature points, motion estimation, three-dimensional reconstruction, etc. Compared to the traditional vision system based on image capturing cards and PC platforms, it has the advantages of small size, favourable real-time properties, low power consumption, etc. Experiment results indicate that the precision and speed of corner extraction are both better than those of the traditional PC platforms.
Wheeled mobile robots are increasingly being utilized in unknown and dangerous situations such as planetary surface exploration. Based on force analysis of the differential joints and force analysis between the wheels and the ground, this paper established the quasi-static mathematical model of the 6-wheel mobile system of planetary exploration rover with rocker-bogie structure. Considering the constraint conditions, with the method of finding the wheels' friction force solution space feasible region, obstacle-climbing capability of the mobile mechanism was analyzed. Given the same obstacle heights and contact angles of wheel-ground, the single side forward obstacle-climbing of the wheels was simulated respectively, and the results show that the rear wheel has the best obstacle-climbing capability, the middle wheel is the worst, and the front wheel is moderate.
In a ubiquitous computing environment, contexts are initially got and stored on those nodes scattered over the environment. However, the traditional reasoning about contexts applied a centralized approach which aggravated the load of reasoning server and cost for communication of context. As an important approach for context reasoning, the rule-based reasoning can be easily decomposed of independent propositions. Therefore, the rule-based context reasoning can be decomposed and distributed over those nodes of the ubiquitous environment to decrease the computing load of reasoning server. In this paper, we propose a distributed fuzzy reasoning Petri net model (dFRPN) towards the decomposition of distributed fuzzy reasoning. dFRPN model is able to formalize the distribution of fuzzy reasoning over every node of the whole environment. dFRPN model is characterized as a hierarchical structure to make a description of reasoning on nodes more clear. Considering the limited capabilities of some mobile nodes such as PDA and smart phone, we add the special migrating transition to define the load detection and corresponding actions. At the end of the paper, the feasibility of dFRPN model is validated through a case of context-awareness based personalized recommendation system.
Ouhsain et al [Expert Systems with Applications 36, 2123-2129(2009)] presented a technique using DWT and NMF, which apply NMF to the blocks of the wavelet decomposition sub-band, and then is followed by eigendecomposition distortion. Motivated by the approach of Ouhsain et al, we proposed an improved image watermarking scheme. Our technique do not apply NMF to the blocks of the wavelet decomposition sub-band, direct apply SVD to these blocks. Our proposed algorithm is simpler than algorithm of Ouhsain et al. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed scheme not only provides good fidelity and robustness against intentional attacks and normal visual processes, but also achieves a low computational complexity.
Modern Inductive Logic is an important component in inductive learning logic, which is one of the basic cognitive skills in experience knowledge acquisition. The consistency of inductive logic and inductive learning in research object and method make it possible to form inductive technique by specification on theories and methods of inductive logic on basis of cognitive mechanis. The difference between Inductive Logic and Inductive Learning in the research aim determines we should not copy the theories of Inductive Logic and should rest on Artificial intelligence and do some appropriate quotations from the theories of Modern Inductive Logic. In this paper, by combing inductive logic theory of Shindika's probability logic System with inductive learning technique, a new learning algorithm is proposed and the corresponding machine learning system is built, and then the validity is verified by clinical cases Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM).
One promising application of natural language processing (NLP) research is in the area of information extraction (IE). In this paper, we present work flow of our IE system for the extraction of semantically rich information from the unstructured or semi-structured Chinese web pages. Knowledge engineering approach and automatic training approach are used to extract pattern and built knowledge repository. General IE system needs to label the unlabeled training web pages. A novel methodology that does not need to label text is developed, including hierarchy filtration pattern matching based on syntax in best distance method and maximum forward boundary recognition using organization suffix repository and part of speech tagging method.
Combining genetic algorithms and artificial neural networks, a hybrid genetic-neural method was proposed for modeling the nonlinear dynamic deformation system considering the effect of environmental factors. This method describes the characteristic of nonlinear evolvement of deformation using ANN (the artificial neural network) whose structure (including nodes of input layer and hide layer) is automatically searched by GA (the genetic algorithm). The learning-samples and the testing-samples for training and testing the prediction function of ANN are made up of the input of ANN, which includes the temperature, the hydrostatic pressure and the time-series, while the desired output includes only the deformation. The ANN is trained by the learning-samples and is tested by the testing-samples. The practical example shows that the model constituted by this algorithm has more accurate predicting result and better predicting performance.
A modular universal unit (MUU) is developed for snake- like robots, which has 3 d.o.f. with a series of passive rollers around its cylindrical shell. Among those d.o.f., pitching and yawing are actuated by means of differential gears to accomplish a large ratio of propulsion to mass. The series of passive rollers around the cylindrical aluminum shell of the MUU form another large wheel that can be used as a driving wheel of mobile robots. The snake- like robot composed of those MUUs has more powerful propulsion and higher mobility. By connecting MUUs in different forms, we can also realize a connected mobile platform or a manipulator in addition to a snake- like robot. Owing to it having 3 d.o.f., two or more MUUs can be connected to make up many mobile robots or form a manipulator that exhibits high mobility and agility. Some typical reconfigurable robots composed of these MUUs are analyzed for locomotion control. Finally, the locomotion experiments and simulations are given to show the characteristics of this MUU. (C) Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden and The Robotics Society of Japan, 2009
This work intends to enhance the mobility and flexibility of a tracked mobile robot through changing its shape in unstructured environments. A shape-shifting mobile robot, AMOEBA-I, has been developed. With three tracked modules, AMOEBA-I has nine locomotion configurations and three of them are symmetrical configurations. The key advantage of this design over other mobile robots is its adaptability and flexibility because of its various configurations. It can change its configuration fluently and automatically to adapt to different environments or missions. A modularized structure of the control system is proposed and designed for AMOEBA-I to improve the fault tolerance and substitutability of the system. The strategies of cooperative control, including cooperative shape shifting, cooperative turning and cooperative obstacle negotiation, have been proposed to improve the capability of shape shifting, locomotion and obstacle negotiation for AMOEBA-I. A series of experiments have been carried out, and demonstrated that such a structure possesses excellent mobility and high flexibility under various urban environments including stairs, a narrow space, an obstacle, uneven debris and an underground garage. Being small, portable, and remotely controlled, AMOEBA-I has potential applications in areas such as urban search and rescue and environment reconnaissance. (C) Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden and The Robotics Society of Japan, 2009
This paper presents a three-dimensional (3-D) dynamic model for a self-propelled, multilink dolphin-like robot to predict the dynamic behaviors of the bio-inspired artificial dolphin system within the framework of multibody dynamics. The propulsive structure mimicking dorsoventral motion includes a multilink tail and a flexibly oscillating fluke moving in coordination, as well as a pair of mechanical flippers performing flapping movements. This configuration can practically be simplified as an open-chain, tree-like multibody with a mobile base. The Schiehlen method is then employed to formulate the equations of motion based on the well-integrated kinematic and dynamic analyses of propulsive elements. Several locomotor behaviors, via coordinated control of the propulsors, can be principally replicated and numerically evaluated. Comparative results between simulations and experiments on forward swimming and combined motions are shown to demonstrate the effectiveness of the created model and locomotion control methods for dolphin-like swimming. (C) Koninklijke Brill NV, Leiden and The Robotics Society of Japan, 2009
Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to discuss the autonomous navigation and guidance scheme for future precise and safe planetary landing.
In this paper, we discuss multi-agent formation problems with considering the environmental influence. The autonomous agents are moving in a bounded region, and the environment in the region influences the multi-agent systems with designed potential functions. The steady-state formation of the agents is affected by these artificial potential functions. As the number, positions, and potential function forms of environment inputs vary, the multi-agent systems result in different stable formations. Both analysis and simulations results are presented.
This paper is concerned with consensus control of undirected networks of discrete-time first-order agents under quantized communication. A distributed protocol is proposed based on dynamic encoding and decoding with finite level uniform quantizers. It is shown that under the protocol designed, for a connected network, average-consensus can be achieved with an exponential convergence rate based on a single-bit information exchange between each pair of adjacent nodes at each time step. As the number of agents increases, the explicit form of the asymptotic convergence rate is given in relation to the number of nodes, the number of the quantization levels and the ratio between the algebraic connectivity and the spectral radius of the Laplacian of the communication graph.
In this paper, a modified least squares support vector regression (LSSVR) model, called C-ascending least squares support vector regression (C-ALSSVR), is proposed for foreign exchange rates forecasting. The generic idea of the proposed C-ALSSVR model is based on the prior knowledge that different data points often provide different information for modeling and more weights should be given to those data points containing more information. The C-ALSSVR can be obtained by a simple modification of the regularization parameter in LSSVR, whereby more weights are given to the recent least squares errors than the distant least squares errors while keeping the regularized terms in its original form. For verification purpose, the performance of the C-ALSSVR model is evaluated using three typical foreign exchange rates. Experimental results obtained demonstrated that the C-ALSSVR model is very promising tool in foreign exchange rates forecasting.
A modular universal unit (MUU) implements Pitching, Yawing and Rolling DOF is presented in this paper. By connecting these MUUs in different forms, we can develop the 3D snake-like robot and other mobile robots. A series of passive rollers around the cylindrical aluminum shell of MUU form an actuating wheel for the omnidirectional mobile robot. The communication and replacement is feasible due to high integration of MUU. Two or more MUUs can be connected to make up mobile robots to move, which exhibits high mobility and agility of MUU. Some typical configurations of robot composed of these MUUs are presented. The kinematics and controllability of proposed robots are analyzed for self-reconfigurable commission. Some locomotion experiments are given to show characteristic of MUU.
The objects of traditional plant identification were too broad and the classification features of it were usually not synthetic and the recognition rate was always slightly low. This paper gives one recognition approach based on supervised locally linear embedding (LLE) and K-nearest neighbors. The recognition results for thirty kinds of broad-leaved trees were realized and the average correct recognition rate reached 98.3%. Comparison with other recognition method demonstrated the proposed method is effective in advancing the recognition rate.
Particle swarm optimization algorithm is a global optimization technique and a new technology base on swarm brainpower. This ideology comes from manpower anima and evolvement calculation theory. Its algorithm is simple for implement and excellent for application. Particle follow the one which is the best it found in the whole swarm to complete optimize. To solve the adjustable capability of fuzzy controlment and combine with the characteristic of nerve network, so fuzzy neural networks based on particle swarm optimization is designed in this paper. A nonlinear system is identified by the fussy neural networks. The distinguish process of fuzzy nerve network is confirming the precondition parameter and conclusion parameter. Simulation result indicates the great effect and potential in optimization of fuzzy nerve network. Base on this arithmetic's speediness and availability, it can be use to practical field.
Finding optimal path through a graph efficiently is central to many problems; including route planning for a mobile robot. BDD-based incremental heuristic search method uses heuristics to focus their search and reuses BDD-based information from previous searches to find solutions to series of similar search problems much faster than solving each search problem from scratch. In this paper, we apply BDD-based incremental heuristic search to robot navigation in unknown terrain, including goal-directed navigation in unknown terrain and mapping of unknown terrain. The resulting BDD-based dynamic A* (BDDD*) algorithm is capable of planning paths in unknown, partially known and changing environments in an efficient, optimal, and complete manner. We present properties about BDDD* and demonstrate experimentally the advantages of combining BDD-based incremental and heuristic search for the applications studied. We believe that our experimental results will make BDD-based D* like replanning algorithms more popular and enable robotics researchers to adapt them to additional applications.
The greedy approach is widely used for combinatorial optimization problems, but its implementation varies from problem to problem. In this paper we propose a mechanical approach for implementing greedy algorithmic programs. Using PAR, method, a problem can be continually partitioned into subproblems in smaller size based on the problem singleton and the maximum selector, and the greedy algorithm can be mechanically generated by combining the problem-solving sequences. Our structural model supports logical transformation from specifications to algorithmic programs by deductive inference; and thus significantly promotes the automation and reusability of algorithm design.
The grey system theory studies the uncertainty of small sample size problems. This paper using grey system theory in the deformation monitoring field, based on analysis of present grey forecast models, developed the spatial multi-point model. By using residual modification, the spatial multi-point residual model eras developed in further study. Then, combined with the sedimentation data of Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Dam, the results are compared and analyzed, the conclusion has been made and the advantages of the residual spatial multi-point model has been proved.
In the paper, direct torque control (DTC) and fuzzy control are combined. The scheme of fuzzy DTC of multiphase based on torque prediction was presented. The errors of stator flux linkage and magnetic torque were fuzzified by using fuzzy controller. Expected voltage vector and flux linkage angle were determined by using fuzzy decision. The value of the expected voltage vector was confirmed through torque prediction. Simulation results verified the performance of the proposed method.
In this paper, a new method is proposed by applying case-based reasoning technique for detecting the ground collapses. The study demonstrates that the high resolution remote sensing images are suitable for monitoring the ground collapses in the study area with karst relief. With the help of object-based image analysis method, the generic algorithm (GA) for optimizing the spatial, shape, spectral, hierarchy and textural features was used in the multi-scale image segmentation with the good fitness value, and then the case library was built for detecting the collapse. The case library is reusable for place-independent detection. The proposed method has been tested in the Pearl River Delta in south China. The result of ground-collapse detection is well.
In this paper we present DockFlow, a prototypic version of a PharmaGrid DockFlow is supporting pharmaceutical research through enabling virtual screening on the Grid The system was developed in the course of the BRIDGE project funded by the European Commission Grids have been used before to run compute- and data-intensive virtual screening experiments, like in the WISDOM project With DockFlow, however, we addressed a variety of problems yet unsolved, like the diversity of results produced by different docking tools We also addressed the problem of analysing the data produced in a distributed virtual screening system applying a combinatorial docking approach In DockFlow we worked on a grid-based problem solving environment for virtual screening with the following major features execution of four different docking services (FlexX, AutoDock, DOCK and GAsDock) at locations in Europe and China remotely from a common workflow, storage of the results in a common Docking Database providing a shared analysis platform for the collaboration partners and combination of the results The DockFlow prototype is evaluated on two scientific case studies malaria and avian flu
Branch-and-bound and backtracking are widely used for search and optimization problems, but their implementations vary from problem to problem. In this paper we propose a unified approach of program derivation and generation for the two classes of algorithms. We first define a generalized specification for the search strategies, and then derive the algorithms, abstract programs and generic programs by incremental refinements on PAR platform, and finally generate efficient programs for concrete problem-solving via colimit computations. Our approach achieves a high level of abstraction and mechanization without losing performance.
This paper presents a kind of domestic robot with multi-function such as cleaning, surveillance. The domestic robot is mainly composed of four functional modules, namely motion and cleaning module, vision module, sensory module, and GSM module. Motion and cleaning module is a mobile platform with cleaning tools. The main part of the vision module is an IP camera, which is used for telepresence. The sensory module is made up of some sensors apperceiving the surrounding and detecting anomalies. The GSM module is just like a mobile phone, which could send messages to an appointed telephone. The security of Internet connecting in our proposed design is described detailedly. Through the Internet or mobile phones, we could accomplish telepresence and take remote control of the domestic robot. The experimental results show the implement of cleaning, surveillance and remote control.
A new two-level receding horizon multiple robot formation control strategy is proposed in this paper. Where the local GPMN tracking controllers acting on each individual robot system are at the lower level, and at the higher level, the receding horizon optimization is conducted by considering both the full dynamics of each robot system and their local controller. This new algorithm presents some attracting advantages, including the suboptimal formation behavior based on the receding horizon optimization algorithm, the convergence ensured by the GPMN structure, the good real time performance, and the reduced communicational burden. And finally, in order to show the feasibility and validity of the new proposed algorithm, simulations with respect to the formation problem of 4 planar model helicopters are conducted and the results are analyzed.
By combining particle swarm optimization algorithm (PSO) with fuzzy neural networks (FNN), a PSO fuzzy neural networks (PSO-FNN) was proposed. Then PSO-FNN was applied in soft-sensor modeling of product particle size in ball milling circuits. The new method assumed that FNN was used to construct the soft-sensor modeling of product particle size while PSO was employed to optimize parameters of FNN. Experiment results show that the model based on PSO-FNN has higher precision and better performance than the model based on BPNN.
As generalization ability of neural network was restricted by overfitting problem in the network's training. Early stopping algorithm based on fuzzy clustering was put forward to solve this problem in this paper. Subtractive clustering and Fuzzy C-Means clustering (FCM) were combined to realize optimal division of training set, validation set and test set. How to realize this algorithm in backpropagation (BP) network by utilizing neural network toolbox and fuzzy logic toolbox in MATLAB was dwelled on. Early stopping algorithm based on fuzzy clustering and other early stopping algorithms were applied in function approximation and pattern recognition problems in validation experiments. Experiments results indicate that early stopping algorithm based on fuzzy clustering has higher precision in comparison to other early stopping algorithms. Outputs of training set, validation set and test set are more accordant.
The Vehicle Routing Problem (VRP) is a NP complete problem and is also a hot topic in the operational research. But traditional methods might suffer from slow convergence and the curse of large sizes, heuristics-based swarm intelligence can be an efficient alternative. Particle swarm optimization (PSO) is known to effectively solve engineering optimization problems. In this paper, the PSO in solving VRP is comprehensive surveyed from two basic aspects: the improved PSO algorithms and the particle encoding method. For each application, technical details that are required are all discussed. Finally, a summary is given together with suggestions for future research.
This paper considers the formation control of multiple skid-steered mobile robots with nonholonomic constraint in each robot dynamics. We propose a switching control method based on local sensor-based information for the group of robots. If the distance between leader and follower robots is larger than the switching threshold, a nonlinear control law is employed to make the followers move effectively toward the leader robot; otherwise, finite-time control based on feedback linearization is used to quickly stabilize the relative distance and orientation of the follower robots. Both stability analysis and simulations are provided and moreover, the formation control of Pioneer 3-AT mobile robots by the proposed method is shown.
Online evaluation of battery State of Function (SOF) is crucial for battery management systems of autonomous mobile robots. Battery State of Charge (SOC) represents its remaining energy available, whereas internal resistance and capacity reflect its State of Health (SOH). In this paper, an improved equivalent circuit model is proposed to estimate SOC, internal resistance and capacity using an Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF). The proposed method not only estimates SOC, but also evaluates SOH and SOF. Experimental results have shown the effectiveness of the proposed method using resistive loads and a robot prototype for inspecting power transmission line.
The dual heuristic programming (DHP) approach has a superior ability for solving approximate dynamic programming problems in adaptive critic designs (ACD). The common approaches applied in the DHP are design the multilayer feedforward neural networks (MLFNN) as the differential model of the plant for training the critic and action networks. However, the problems of overfitting and premature convergence to local optima usually pose great challenges in the practice of MLFNNs during the training procedure. In this paper a least squares support vector machine (LS-SVM) regressor optimized by particle swarm algorithm (PSO) is proposed for generating the control actions and the learning rules for the critic and action networks. PSO is introduced to select the LS-SVM's hyper-parameters. The introduction of the SVM based training mechanism imparts the developed algorithm with inherent capacity for combating the overfitting problem as well as showing relatively high efficiency in converging to the optima. Simulation on the balancing of a cart pole plant shows that the proposed learning strategy is verified as faster convergence and higher efficiency as compared to traditional BP based adaptive dynamic programming approaches.
In this paper, we present our work on infinite horizon adaptive dynamic programming problem, which is referred to as epsilon-adaptive dynamic programming, for discrete-time systems with discount factor 0 < gamma < 1 in the performance cost. A single controller, epsilon-optimal controller mu(epsilon)*, which is determined from an epsilon-optimal cost V-epsilon*, is obtained to approximate the optimal controller. The c-optimal controller mu(epsilon)* can always control the state to approach the equilibrium state, while the performance cost is close to the biggest lower bound of all performance costs within an error according to epsilon. An algorithm for finding the epsilon-optimal controller is developed and numerical experiments are given to illustrate the performance of the algorithm.
A recurrent neural network is proposed to deal with the convex optimization problem. By employing a specific nonlinear unit, the proposed neural network is proved to be convergent to the optimal solution in finite time, which increases the computation efficiency dramatically. Compared with most of existing stability conditions, i.e., asymptotical stability and exponential stability, the obtained finite-time stability result is more attractive, and therefore could be considered as a useful supplement to the current literature. In addition, a switching structure is suggested to further speed up the neural network convergence. Moreover, by using the penalty function method, the proposed neural network can be extended straightforwardly to solving the constrained optimization problem. Finally, the satisfactory performance of the proposed approach is illustrated by two simulation examples.
Animation is an efficient tool for visible presentation. On one hand, it has been widely applied into entertainment Fields. In these fields, animation does not need precise physical dynamic model. On the other hand, animation can provide precise collision detection, which can be very useful in engineering, and particularly in virtual reality, computer aided design and human computer interface.
This paper considers the position control problem of nonholonomic mobile robots with plant uncertainties and external disturbances. A robust passivity-based controller using fuzzy logic is proposed based on the reduced-form dynamic model of nonholonomic systems. The fuzzy logic system, whose parameters are tuned on-line, is introduced to learn the unknown (uncertain) plant dynamics due to the universal approximation property of fuzzy logic systems, and the adaptive compensator is employed to suppress external disturbances and approximation errors. The proposed control scheme can guarantee that all signals in the closed-loop system are uniformly ultimately bounded. Simulation results show the efficiency of the proposed approach.
Based on optimal theory, Kelly model realizes the bandwidth allocation on network with proportional fairness and has asymptotical stability. However, the primal algorithm of Kelly model leads to the packet accumulation in the queue of the bottleneck link. By using heuristic fuzzy rules, this paper designs a fuzzy controller to adjust the additive increase parameter of the primal algorithm dynamically. Then genetic algorithm is used to optimize the scaling gains of the fuzzy controller, which is called GA-based fuzzy controller in this paper. The primal algorithm with the GA-based fuzzy controller can avoid the packet accumulation and keep the fairness and asymptotical stability. Thus it improves the performance of the primal algorithm.
A local interaction based hunting approach for multi-robot system in unstructured environments is proposed in this paper. The hunting task is modeled as three modes: initial leader-fixed following&search mode, leader-changeable following&search mode and hunting mode. The conditions for modes switching are given. In order to reduce the dependence on communication, an event-trigger communication scheme based on the evader's observation state is designed. For individual robot, it integrates local information from vision system, sonar sensors and encoders in its local coordinate frame as well as modest communication data to acquire situation-suited task mode, and then makes decisions based on behaviors with appropriate local coordination rules. The experiments with physical mobile robots verify the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
During the process of pluralistic fertilization model construction, the unreasonable ratio of nitrogen, phosphorus and kalium easily results in the deviation of fertilizing model. This paper has proposed an adaptive algorithm of fertilization model fitting based mixed intelligent computing of GP/GA, and solved the issue of structure and parameters optimization of adaptive fertilization model. This algorithm has carried out the research of applying control factors to adjust the parameters of filling function, the appropriate ratio of nitrogen, phosphorus and kalium is regarded as control factors of heuristic search to adjust models, on the basis of history test data dynamical models are generated, and the optimization and correction of models based appropriate ratio of nutrients are achieved.
A novel method for the robot path planning in dynamic environment is presented in this paper. Based on the analysis of visual modeling, the reason of premature convergence and diversity loss in PSO is explained, and a new modified algorithm is proposed to ensure the rational flight of every particle dimensional component. Meanwhile, two parameters of particle-distribution-degree and particle-dimension-distance are introduced into the proposed algorithm in order to avoiding premature convergence. Simulation results show that it has better ability of finding global optimum, and still is more efficient than traditional particle swarm Optimization and genetic algorithm (GA).
This article presents our recently developed position-sensitive detector (PSD) guided servoing system for precise localization of industrial robots. The system is portable and affordable, and can position robot precisely so as to benefit further research on the calibration applications of industrial robots. To achieve highly precise position feedback, we have employed a high performance lateral-effect PSD with a resolution of 0.5 mu m. Based on the system kinematics and dynamics, a PSD guided servo (PSDGS) control method is then developed and simplified to be a planar motion control approach in which an on-line estimation of the transformation matrix between the PSD object and the robot base is applied. The experiments have been implemented on an ABB industrial robot IRB1600. The achieved results demonstrate that the mean localization precision of the industrial robot using the developed PSDGS method is totally better than 20 mu m.
This study describes a method to obtain obstacle information directionally by a novel omnidirectional stereo vision system. Such information is important for mobile robots navigation. The omnidirectional stereo vision system is based on a common perspective camera coupled with two hyperbolic mirrors. Given two images of a space point, acquired by this vision system, the 3D coordinates of the point can he calculated by means of a triangulation. Then, a full model of calibrating this vision system is presented, which can be easily generalized to all kinds of catadioptic sensors. The images captured by the stereo vision system are unwrapped into panoramic images, which are then examined for stereo matching along vertical epiploar lines. An algorithm of the quick stereo edge matching method based on Canny edge detection is proposed, and the result of obstacle detection is shown as well.
Vision-guided obstacle avoidance, especially in unstructured environments is a challenging issue in robotics. The paper proposes a biological inspired method to find passable regions based on the estimation of relative depth in a single still colour image. In the method, Multiple-layer In-place Learning Network (MILN) is applied to learn the passable regions in images, choosing several depth-related features extracted from the images as inputs. The method proposed here does not need any special prior knowledge or assumptions. We test our method on practical images of different, scenes. Experimental results validate our method.
We introduce an analytically solvable model of two-dimensional continuous attractor neural networks (CANNs). The synaptic input and the neuronal response form Gaussian bumps in the absence of external stimuli, and enable the network to track external stimuli by its translational displacement in the two-dimensional space. Basis functions of the two-dimensional quantum harmonic oscillator in polar coordinates are introduced to describe the distortion modes of the Gaussian bump The perturbative method is applied to analyze its dynamics. Testing the method by considering the network behavior when the external stimulus abruptly changes its position, we obtain results of the reaction time and the amplitudes of various distortion modes, with excellent agreement with simulation results.
Recently, classifier ensemble methods are gaining more and more attention in the machine-learning and data-mining communities. In most cases, the performance of an ensemble is better than a single classifier. Many methods for creating diverse classifiers were developed during the past decade. When these diverse classifiers are generated, it is important to select the proper base classifier to join the ensemble. Usually, this selection process is called pruning the ensemble. In general, the ensemble pruning is a selection process in which an optimal combination will be selected from many existing base classifiers. Some base classifiers containing useful information may be excluded in this pruning process. To avoid this problem, the multilayer ensemble pruning model is used in this paper. In this model, the pruning of one layer can be seen as a multimodal optimization problem. A novel multi-sub-swarm particle swarm optimization (MSSPSO) is used here to find multi-solutions for this multilayer ensemble pruning model. In this model, each base classifier will generate an oracle output. Each layer will use MSSPSO algorithm to generate a different pruning based on previous oracle output. A series of experiments using UCI dataset is conducted, the experimental results show that the multilayer ensemble pruning via MSSPSO algorithm can improve the generalization performance of the multi-classifiers ensemble system. Besides, the experimental results show a relationship between the diversity and the pruning technique.
In this paper, we address distributed control structures for multi-agent systems with linear controlled agent dynamics. We consider the parametrization and related geometric structures of the coordination controllers for multi-agent systems with fixed topologies. Necessary and sufficient conditions to characterize stabilizing consensus controllers axe obtained. Then we consider the consensus for the multi-agent systems with switching interaction topologies based on control parametrization.
Based on the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 5 Galaxy Sample, we explore photometric morphology classification and redshift estimation of galaxies using photometric data and known spectroscopic redshifts. An unsupervised method, k-means algorithm, is used to separate the whole galaxy sample into early- and late-type galaxies. Then, we investigate the photometric redshift measurement with different input patterns by means of artificial neural networks (ANNs) for the total sample and two subsamples. The experimental result indicates that ANNs show better performance when more parameters are applied in the training set, and the mixed accuracy sigma(mix)= root sigma(2)(searly)+s sigma(2)(late) of photometric redshift estimation for the two subsets is superior to sigma(z) for the overall sample alone. For the optimal result, the rms deviation of photometric redshifts for the mixed sample amounts to 0.0192, that for the overall sample is 0.0196, meanwhile, that for early- and late-type galaxies adds up to 0.0164 and 0.0217, respectively.
In this paper, we investigate the impact of the non-numerical information on exchange rate changes and that of ensemble multiple classifiers on forecasting exchange rate between U.S. dollar and Japanese yen. We first engage the fuzzy comprehensive evaluation model to quantify the non-numerical fundamental information. We then design a single classifier, addressing the impact of exchange rate changes associated with this information. In addition, we also propose other different classifiers in order to deal with the numerical information. Finally, we integrate all these classifiers using a support vector machine (SVM). Experimental results showed that our ensemble method has a higher degree of forecasting accuracy after adding the non-numerical information.
In the complex and uncertain ocean environments, and under the conditions of current and sensor noises, multiple autonomous underwater vehicles (multi-AUV) keep a spatial formation to survey a large-scale unknown area with real-time obstacle avoidance ability. This paper presents a new behavior fusion method using fuzzy logic for coordinating multiple reactive behaviors. The inputs to the proposed fuzzy control scheme for the leader AUV in multi-AUV system consist of the deviation in yaw angle while performing obstacle avoidance and goal seeking action separately, and the fuzzy control scheme for the follower AUV consists of the deviations in yaw angle while performing obstacle avoidance and formation keeping action separately. The outputs from the behavior fusion scheme are the behavior weights for the leader and follower AUV. A real-time simulation platform has been developed and several typical obstacle scenes have been demonstrated in this simulation platform, the simulation results verify the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed behavior fusion method.
A multi-agent system (MAS) is a system composed of multiple interacting intelligent agents. Over the past few years, the consensus (or synchronization) of MAS has received an increasing attention in various disciplines. It is well known that Vicsek model is a classical model for describing the collective behaviors of MAS. This paper further investigates the consensus of a modified time-delayed Vicsek model. It should be especially pointed out that the common connectivity assumption for the consensus of MAS has been removed in this paper. Moreover, two simple consensus criteria are then attained for the consensus of a modified time-delayed Vicsek model.
In this paper, we investigate two classes of consensus protocols for networked multi-agent systems: linear time-invariant (LTI) systems and linear time-delay systems. Based on the topology of multi-agent systems, the first-order integrator model is developed. The digraph (directed graph) is employed to show the topology of networked systems, and then a consensus convergence criterion is established. For LTI systems, we prove that their consensus value will converge globally asymptotically to the convex hull of initial states. By solving a set of linear equations, we get the convex combinations of equilibria, and we obtain the convex value of continuous system. If the topology is fixed and time-invariant, the consensus value of the linear time-delay system is also the convex hull of the initial states and is identical to the LTI system. Finally, a network of six agents is presented to show the effectiveness of the results of this paper.
The support vector machine (SVM), proposed by Vapnik (1995), has been successfully applied to classification, cluster, and forecast. This study proposes support vector regression (SVR) to forecast real estate prices in China. The aim of this paper is to examine the feasibility of SVR in real estate price prediction. To achieve the aim, five indicators are selected as the input variables and real estate price is used as output variable of the SVR. The quarterly data during 1998-2008 are employed as the data set to construct the SVR model. With the scenarios, real estate prices in future are forecasted and analyzed. The forecasting performance of SVR model was also compared with BPNN model. The experimental results demonstrate that based on the mean absolute error (MAE), the mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) and the root mean squared error (RMSE), the SVR model outperforms the BPNN model and the SVR based approach was an efficient tool to forecast real estate prices.
The performance of a RBF neural network strongly depends on the network structure and parameters. Therefore, an algorithm that can automatically select the network configuration will be very beneficial. This paper presents a novel method where configuration of an RBF network can be learned by a hybrid training schema. Appropriate number of neural nets in the hidden layer and their coarse centers is obtained by a modified version of Rival Penalized Competitive Learning (RPCL). Then, Genetic Algorithm is applied to determine the optimal parameters including refined cluster centers, variance of Radial-Basis Function and weights. The application of proposed evolutionary RPCL-RBF networks is discussed and the result of simulation illustrate that proposed method is effective.
For the self-localization problem of the indoor mobile robots, a self-localization method of indoor mobile robots based on artificial landmarks and binocular stereo vision was proposed in this paper. First, a color scalable artificial landmark model is designed to give position information of the environment. Second, using the color segmentation, invariance of cross-ratio and self-adaptive window to detect the landmark, so the position information could be got. Finally, the binocular stereo vision is used by combining with the position information of artificial landmark. The experimental results show that the proposed artificial landmark model is robust to the light and camera position, and the self-localization accuracy can meet the requirement of indoor mobile robot.
Input plane image preprocessing can improve the performance of Joint Transform Correlator(JTC). Swarm Intelligence based image processing method is consistent with the parallel characteristic of optical signal processing method. In this paper,A Swarm Intelligence based input plane preprocessing method is proposed. Some other methods are also used to perform the task, such as grayscale transform, Sobel operator and mathematical morphology. The experimental results show that the performance of the proposed Swarm Intelligence preprocessing based JTC is better than that of the JTC based on other preprocessing methods.
This paper proposed a fuzzy control system based on oscillator networks for the locomotion control of the quadruped robot whose legs have no yaw freedom. The oscillator networks are used to generate stable, synchronized leg gait signal for the locomotion of the robot. The fuzzy controller is introduced to tune the parameters of the oscillator networks for generating adaptive leg motion curve for the out-door environments. The fuzzy controller consist four adaptive fuzzy rules sets to deal with the different out-door environments, respectively. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is examined in a virtual environment by computer simulations.
By combining particle swarm optimization algorithm (PSO) with fuzzy neural networks (FNN), a PSO fuzzy neural networks (PSO-FNN) was proposed, which takes full advantage of the global search ability of particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm and the local search ability of conjugate gradient algorithm with constraints. The new method assumed that FNN was used to construct the model of cement raw material blending process, while PSO was employed to optimize parameters of FNN. Experiment results show that the model based on PSO-FNN has higher precision and better performance than the model based on BPNN.
Complex Adaptive System (CAS) models have been proposed as an effective tool for understanding and managing corporate Circular Economy (CE), yet the contribution of this approach to basic or applied corporate CE management has been less than anticipated. Therefore, nested hierarchies, multi-agents interactions and emergent properties have been analyzed in this paper. These serves as heuristic device to map the interactions settled in the CE management networks between corporations, government, consumers and community residents. And then, suggestions for policy maker are outlined.
In this paper, the exponential synchronization problem of a class of chaotic delayed neural networks (DNNs) via impulsive control method is studied. Based on the theory of impulsive functional differential equations (FDEs), some new synchronization criteria expressed in the form of linear matrix inequalities (LMIs) are derived. The designed impulsive controller not only can globally exponentially stabilize the error dynamics, but also can control the exponential synchronization rate of the error dynamics. Furthermore, to estimate the stable region, a novel optimization control algorithm is developed, which can deal with the minimum problem with two nonlinear terms coexisting in LMIs effectively. Finally, simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
In this paper, we discuss the coordination of a group of autonomous agents with input saturation and time-varying interconnection. The state agreement of the whole agent group is discussed with bang-bang control protocols and switching interaction topologies described by joint connectivity on the time interval [t, infinity) for any time t. The convergence analysis for the considered system is carried out under the distributed neighbor-based control in a discontinuous bang-bang form. Two well-known cases (that is, bidirectional graph and uniform joint-connection graph) are discussed, respectively, with proposing a sufficient condition and a counterexample. Moreover, a case for finite-time state agreement by the proposed non-smooth local rules is also presented.
In this paper, we study the consensus problem of multi-agent systems in which each agent adopts the same linear model that can be of any order. We consider the case where only the relative output error between the neighboring agents can be measured. In order to solve the consensus problem, two kinds of decentralized control laws are designed. We first show that a static output error feedback control can solve the consensus problem if some further constraints on the system model is imposed. Then we use an observer based approach to design a dynamic output error feedback consensus control. We note that with the observer based approach, some information exchange between the agents is needed unless the associated adjacent graph is completely connected.
Multi-agent systems (MAS) have received an increasing attention over the past few years. Here an MAS is a system consisted of multiple interacting intelligent agents. This paper further investigates the consensus of MAS with an active leader and asymmetric adjacency matrix. In particular, the state of the active leader is changing and unmeasured. Under some suitable conditions, we have proved that: i) each agent of MAS can follow the active leader if the input of the active leader is known beforehand; ii) the tracking error of MAS can be effectively estimated if the input of the active leader is unknown beforehand. Moreover, numerical simulations are then given to verify the effectiveness of the proposed theorems.
In order to have a self-organized multi-agent system exhibit some expected collective behavior, it is necessary that some agents (called leaders) are informed about the expected behavior and able to intervene. Then a fundamental question is: how many such leaders are needed? Naturally the answer depends on the model used. In this paper the model proposed by Vicsek et al. is used for the analysis. By analyzing the system dynamics and estimating the characteristics of the initial neighbor graph, a lower bound on the ratio of leaders is provided that guarantees the expected consensus being reached almost surely.
In a multi-agent system ( MAS), the agents are often considered to be autonomous entities, such as robots or software programs, each under the influence of a local rule, representing its interaction with other agents. Over the past few years, most research in the study of discrete-time MAS's concentrates on linear local rules. However, local interactions between agents are more likely to be governed by nonlinear rules with time-varying delays. This paper investigates the consensus of discrete-time MAS's with nonlinear local rules and time-varying delays. Based on a representative model, we obtain some basic criteria for the consensus of such MAS's. These results cover several existing results as special cases. Moreover, the above criteria are applied to the consensus of the classical Vicsek model with time-varying delays. Simulation results are presented to validate the obtained criteria.
User interest model, as a key component of user model, is very important for personalized or user adaptive E-learning systems. In this paper, we propose an approach for mining user's interest from interactive behaviors. We also develop and implement a domain-specific interactive QA system oriented to Artificial Intelligence. The course ontology, predefined to describe the skeleton of AI course, is used to generate the structure of our interactive QA system. Students can pose and browse questions and answers on their favorite boards. The interactive behaviors, including whether student has pose a question, browsing and answering times, are considered to compute each student's interest. The experiment conducted to evaluate the performance of our approach indicates that our method can capture user's interest precisely.
This paper focuses on the topology description and modeling method for reconfigurable modular serial robots. Based on the module division, one kind of 4 x n topology characteristic matrix is established to describe robots configuration. A modeling method for kinematic analysis on the basis of coordinate systems of modules is put forward. Since the joint modules have several interfaces, many configurations can be constructed. The topology characteristic matrix contains such information as the type of module, the orientation relationship of the joint modules ayes, the form and connection of interfaces and the type of link. From the topology characteristic matrix, we can get the connection form and relationship between each module in the robot. A set of rule for describing a joint module-based coordinate system and transform relationship between the adjacent modules are offered and a kinematics model of the modular serial robot is derived. Hence, the modularization and reconfiguration of analysis software can be implemented. The example analyses show that the topology description and modeling method is correct and valid.
Hydrological predictions in ungauged or poorly gauged basin are crucial for sustainable water management and environmental changes study induced by climate change. Application of remote sensing technology has retrieved lots of spatio-temporal dataset during the past decades for references. In this study, TRMM/PR and MODIS LST data were introduced to get spatial patterns of precipitation and temperature changes by Empirical Orthogonal Function (EOF) technique in a mountainous watershed, southern Tianshan. An input variable group was attempted to be constructed for the Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) to model the stream flow change based on the patterns achieved above. The results indicate that the spatial variability patterns of meteorology can be well recognized from the remote sensing data by EOF analysis. The stream flow process can be satisfyingly simulated with input variables captured from the leading modes during the study period. While, since the probabilistic model was not based on full physical mechanisms, and often times, also limited by the amount of input data, uncertainties often implicated in the output. As an example, it is discussed through the rapidly glaciers melting phenomena induced by climate warming, which is expected to cause change in the flow generation mechanism.
For the human-level intelligence simulation we should simulate it from the essence of intelligence and with the research results of brain science, cognitive science, artificial intelligence and others. In our study, a mental imagery knowledge representation mode had been established based on cognitive mechanism of human. Two kinds of table named mental imagery concept attributes table and concept attribute value ranges table had been used together to represent mental imagery knowledge in system. Mental imagery concept attributes table which formed by the thought of concept lattice was used to decide relations among concepts and attributes under the circumstance of coarse granularity. While concept attribute value ranges table was used to record differences of individual objects belong to the same concept under the circumstance of fine granularity. The concrete structured method of tables and decision-making process of system were described in the paper. Finally, the validity and feasibility of the knowledge representation mode are illustrated with real examples.
Intelligence Science is an interdisciplinary subject which dedicates to joint research on basic theory and technology of intelligence by brain science, cognitive science, artificial intelligence and others. Brain science explores the essence of brain, research on the principles and models of natural intelligence at molecular, cellular, and behavior levels. Cognitive science studies human mental activities, such as perception, learning, memory, thinking, consciousness etc. Artificial intelligence attempts simulation, extension, and expansion of human intelligence using artificial methods and technologies. Researchers specialized in above three disciplines work together to explore new concepts, theories, and methodologies. If successful, it will create a brilliant future in 21st century. The paper will outline the framework of intelligence science and present its ten big challenges. Tolerance Granular Space Model (TGSM) will be discussed as one of helpful approaches.
Dixon resultant is a basic elimination method which has been used widely in the high technology fields of automatic control, robotics, etc. But how to remove extraneous factors in Dixon resultants has been a very difficult problem. In this paper, we discover some extraneous factors by expressing the Dixon resultant in a linear combination of original polynomial system. Furthermore, it has been proved that the factors mentioned above include three parts which come from Dixon derived polynomials, Dixon matrix and the resulting resultant expression by substituting Dixon derived polynomials respectively.
Load forecasting is a traditional research field of power system. This paper analyzed the meteorological and economic characteristics of Heilongjiang Province, and put forward the load forecasting model based on knowledge discovery. First of all, generate the preliminary prediction curve by traditional method, and extract related rules from the historical load and meteorological data, then update the preliminary prediction curve using these rules, and generate the final prediction curve. The model has been used in software system of load forecasting for Heilongjiang power grid Co, Ltd., and obtained desired results.
Recently, it has been suggested that BDD-based Re-Planning A* (BDDRPA*), a BDD-based incremental version of A*, might be an efficient search method for solving path-planning problems in artificial intelligence. BDDRPA* combines ideas of BDD-based search and incremental search to repeatedly find shortest paths from a start vertex to a goal vertex while the topology of the graph changes. However BDDRPA* only works well when vertices art, added or deleted but does't consider the weighted edges. When the edge costs are changed, it doesn't work, and moreover, in BDDRPA*, the heuristic function h is set to 0, so BDDRPA* is degenerated to BDD-based incremental breadth-first search. In this article, we consider BDD-based weighted and heuristic search methods and generalize BDDRPA* to be a real BDD-based incremental heuristic search algorithm (GBDDRPA*). We then show experimentally that GBDDRPA* indeed speeds BDDRPA* up on gridworlds and thus promises to provide a good foundation for building incremental heuristic BDD-search-based replanners.
A novel ultra high strength stainless steel is computationally designed applying a model based on thermodynamic and kinetic principles coupled to a genetic optimization algorithm. The alloy is designed so as to display desired microstructures, which include a fine lath martensite matrix with Cr content above 12 wt%, precipitation of MX carbides and avoidance of undesirable precipitate species. The alloy displaying the highest strength as predicted by the model was fabricated. The microstructures, tensile property and fractography are characterized on specimens subjected to various heat treatment conditions. The best tensile properties are found to be above 1600 and 1700 MPa, for yield strength and ultimate tensile strength, respectively, after solution treatment at 1050 degrees C for 20 minutes followed by aging at 550 degrees C for 60 minutes. The precipitates were found to display a bimodal distribution. The fine desirable particles formed during ageing increase the strength while undesirable large precipitates formed during the preageing homogenisation and solution treatment limit the ductility.
We present a model for self-adjustment of social conventions to small perturbations, and investigate how perturbations can influence the convergence of social convention in different situations. The experimental results show that the sensitivity of social conventions is determined by not only the perturbations themselves but also the agent adjustment functions for the perturbations; and social conventions are more sensitive to the outlier agent number than to the strategy fluctuation magnitudes and localities of perturbations.
Sequential Monte Carlo (SMC) methods, namely, particle filters, are powerful simulation techniques for Sampling sequentially from a complex probability distribution. SMC can be used to solve some problems associated with nonlinear non-Gatissian probability distribution. Sampling is a key step for these methods and has vital effects on simulation results. Various sampling strategies have been proposed to improve the simulation results of SMC methods, but degeneracy of particles sometimes is very severe so that there are only a few particles having significant weights. Diversity of particle samples is reduced significantly so that only a few particles are used to represent the corresponding probability distribution. This kind of sampling is not reasonable to approximate probability distribution. This paper addresses a new method which can avoid the phenomenon of particle degeneracy. We split particles with very big weights into two small ones and use the strategy of neural network to adjust positions of tail particles in order to increase their weights. Another advantage is that this method can efficiently make simulation results approach the actual object. Our simulation results of the typical tracking problem show that not only the phenomenon of particle degeneracy is effectively avoided but also tracking results are much better titan those of the traditional particle filters. Compared with the move-resample method, our method shows better results under the same conditions.
In this paper, a novel heuristic structure optimization methodology for radial basis probabilistic neural networks (RBPNNs) is proposed. First, a minimum volume covering hyperspheres (MVCH) algorithm is proposed to select the initial hidden-layer centers of the RBPNN, and then the recursive orthogonal least square algorithm (ROLSA) combined with the particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm is adopted to further optimize the initial structure of the RBPNN. The proposed algorithms are evaluated through eight benchmark classification problems and two real-world application problems, a plant species identification task involving 50 plant species and a palmprint recognition task. Experimental results show that our proposed algorithm is feasible and efficient for the structure optimization of the RBPNN. The RBPNN achieves higher recognition rates and better classification efficiency than multilayer perceptron networks (MLPNs) and radial basis function neural networks (RBFNNs) in both tasks. Moreover, the experimental results illustrated that the generalization performance of the optimized RBPNN in the plant species identification task was markedly better than that of the optimized RBFNN.
In this study, a novel hybrid intelligent mining system integrating rough sets theory and support vector machines is developed to extract efficiently association rules from original information table for credit risk evaluation and analysis. In the proposed hybrid intelligent system, support vector machines are used as a tool to extract typical features and filter its noise, which are different from the previous studies where rough sets were only used as a preprocessor for support vector machines. Such an approach could reduce the information table and generate the final knowledge from the reduced information table by rough sets. Therefore, the proposed hybrid intelligent system overcomes the dificulty of extracting rules from a trained support vector machine classifier and possesses the robustness which is lacking for rough-set-based approaches. In addition, the effectiveness of the proposed hybrid intelligent system is illustrated with two real-world credit datasets.
Composing web services is gained daily attention in Service Oriented Computing. It includes the dynamic discovery, interaction and coordination of agent-based semantic web services. The authors first follow Function Ontology and Automated Mechanism Design for service agents aggregating. Then the problem is formulated but it is ineffective to solve it from the traditional global view. Because the complexity is NP-complete and it is difficult or even impossible to get some personal information. This paper provides a multi-agent negotiation idea in which each participant negotiates under the condition of its reservation payoff being satisfied. Numerical experiment is given and well evaluates the negotiation.
In this paper, a new approach coupling adaptive particle swarm optimization (APSO) and a priori information for function approximation problem is proposed to obtain better generalization performance and faster convergence rate. It is well known that gradient-based learning algorithms such as backpropagation (BP) algorithm have good ability of local search, whereas PSO has good ability of global search. Therefore, in the new approach, first, APSO encoding the first-order derivative information of the approximated function is applied to train network to near global minima. Second, with the connection weights produced by APSO, the network is trained with a gradient-based algorithm. Due to combining APSO with local search algorithm and considering a priori information, the new approach has better generalization performance and convergence rate than traditional learning ones. Finally, simulation results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed approach. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The region growing pulse coupled neural network (PCNN) algorithm is an efficient method for multi-value image segmentation. However, as a kind of PCNN models, choosing appropriate parameters are usually difficult. This paper brings forward a new approach which improves the region growing PCNN model by modifying the linking channel function and decreases the complexity of adjusting parameters. The region growing PCNN is not effective when processing the edge pixels between different regions because the edge pixels and central pixels are dealt with unfairly. In order to overcome this disadvantage, the proposed method processes the edge pixels by setting the edge pixels and central pixels to receive same linking input if they are in similar condition. Computer simulations prove it can process the edge pixels efficiently and obtain clear boundaries between different regions. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this paper, an efficient approach to search for the global threshold of image using Gaussian mixture model is proposed. Firstly, a gray-level histogram of an image is represented as a function of the frequencies of gray-level. Then to fit the Gaussian mixtures to the histogram of image, the expectation maximization (EM) algorithm is developed to estimate the number of Gaussian mixture of such histograms and their corresponding parameterization. Finally, the optimal threshold which is the average of these Gaussian mixture means is chosen. And the experimental results show that the new algorithm performs better. (C) 2008 Published by Elsevier Inc.
In this paper, a new hybrid learning method for radial basis function neural networks based on generalized recursive least square algorithm is proposed. Firstly the generalized recursive least square (GRLS) model including a general quadratic weight decay term in the energy function for the training of RBF neural networks is described. Then combined with the GRLS approach, a new hybrid learning method is proposed to meet the design goals: improving the generalization ability of the trained network. Finally experimental results demonstrate that our approach can achieve a significantly improved generalization performance of the RBF networks. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we propose two palmprint identification schemes using fusion strategy. In the first fusion scheme, firstly, the principal lines of test image is extracted, and matched with that of all training images. Secondly, those training images with large matching scores are selected to construct a small training sub-database. At last, the decision level fusion, combing matching scores of principal lines and Locality Preserving Projections features, has been made for final identification in small training sub-database. From another point of view, it can be seen that the fusion is restricted by the previous results of principal lines matching, so we call it as restricted fusion. The second fusion scheme is similar to the first one. Just the fusion order is changed. The results of experiments conducted on PolyU palmprint database show that the proposed schemes can achieve 100% accurate recognition rate. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Solar activity prediction services started in 1960's in National Astronomical Observatories, Chinese Academy of Sciences (NAOC). As one of the members of the International Space Environment Service (ISES), Regional Warning Center of China (RWC-China) was set up in 1990's. Solar Activity Prediction Center (SAPC), as one of the four sub-centers of RWC-China, is located in NAOC. Solar activity prediction studies and services in NAOC cover short-term, medium-term, and long-term forecast of solar activities. Nowadays, certain prediction models, such as solar X-ray flare model, solar proton event model, solar 10 cm radio flux model, have been established for the practical prediction services. Recently, more and more physical analyses are introduced in the studies of solar activity prediction, such as the magnetic properties of solar active regions and magnetic structure of solar atmosphere. Besides traditional statistics algorithms, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence techniques, such as Support Vector Machine (SVM) method, are employed in the establishment of forecast models. A Web-based integrated platform for solar activity data sharing and forecast distribution is under construction. (C) 2007 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The near-infrared(NIR) diffuse reflectance spectroscopy was used to study the content of Berberine in the processed Coptis. The allocated proportions of Coptis to ginger, yellow liquor or Evodia rutaecarpa changed according to the results of orthogonal design as well as the temperature. For as withdrawing the full and effective information from the spectral data as possible, the spectral data was preprocessed through first derivative and multiplicative scatter correction(MSC) according to the optimization results of different preprocessing methods. Firstly, the model was established by partial least squares(PLS); the coefficient of determination(l? 2) of the prediction was 0.839, the root mean squared error of prediction(RMSEP) was 0.1422, and the mean relative error(RME) was 0.0276. Secondly. for reducing the dimension and removing noise, the spectral variables were highly effectively compressed via the wavelet trans formation(W-F) technology and the Haar wavelet was selected to decompose the spectral signals. After the wavelet coefficients from WT were input into the artificial neural network(ANN) instead of the spectra signal, the quantitative analysis model of Berberine in processed Coptis was established. The R(2) of the model was 0.9153, the RMSEP was 0.0444, and the RME was 0.0091. The values of appraisal index, namely R(2), RMSECV, and RME, indicate that the generalization ability and prediction precision of ANN arc Superior to those of PLS. The overall results show that NIR spectroscopy combined with ANN can be efficiently utilized for the rapid and accurate analysis of routine chemical compositions in Coptis. Accordingly, the result can provide technical support for the further analysis of Berberine and other components in processed Coptis. Simultaneously, the research can also offer the foundation of quantitative analysis of other NIR application.
The Support Vector Machine (SVM) is an increasingly popular learning procedure based on statistical learning theory, and involves a training phase in which the model is trained by a training dataset of associated input and target output values. The trained model is then used to evaluate a separate set of testing data. There are two main ideas underlying the SVM for discriminant-type problems. The first is an optimum linear separating hyperplane that separates the data patterns. The second is the use of kernel functions to convert the original non-linear data patterns into the format that is linearly separable in a high-dimensional feature space. In this paper, an overview of the SVM, both one-class and two-class SVM methods, is first presented followed by its use in landslide susceptibility mapping. A study area was selected from the natural terrain of Hong Kong, and slope angle, slope aspect, elevation, profile curvature of slope, lithology, vegetation cover and topographic wetness index (TWI) were used as environmental parameters which influence the occurrence of landslides. One-class and two-class SVM models were trained and then used to map landslide susceptibility respectively. The resulting susceptibility maps obtained by the methods were compared to that obtained by the logistic regression (LR) method. It is concluded that two-class SVM possesses better prediction efficiency than logistic regression and one-class SVM. However, one-class SVM, which only requires failed cases, has an advantage over the other two methods as only "failed" case information is usually available in landslide susceptibility mapping. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Accurate, reliable, and timely traffic information is critical for deployment and operation of intelligent transportation systems (ITSs). Traffic forecasting for travelers and traffic operators should become at least as useful and convenient as weather reports. In the US, the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) has envisioned a real-time traffic estimation and prediction system (TrEPS) as an ITS Support platform that resides at traffic management centers (TMCs) for dynamic route assignment (DRA) and other transportation operations. To enable ITS deployment for urban traffic control and management in China, in 1999 the Chinese Academy of Sciences Outlined a research agenda to develop related intelligent systems and technology.(1) A central component of this agenda was a REPS called DynaCAS (dynamic traffic assignment based on complex adaptive systems). Here, we briefly introduce DynaCAS and its open source counterpart DynaChina, emphasizing how they differ from other TrEPS projects.
In this paper we introduce a weighted complex networks model to investigate and recognize structures of patterns. The regular treating in pattern recognition models is to describe each pattern as a high-dimensional vector which however is insufficient to express the structural information. Thus, a number of methods are developed to extract the structural information, such as different feature extraction algorithms used in pre-processing steps, or the local receptive fields in convolutional networks. In our model, each pattern is attributed to a weighted complex network, whose topology represents the structure of that pattern. Based upon the training samples, we get several prototypal complex networks which could stand for the general structural characteristics of patterns in different categories. We use these prototypal networks to recognize the unknown patterns. It is an attempt to use complex networks in pattern recognition, and our result shows the potential for real-world pattern recognition. A spatial parameter is introduced to get the optimal recognition accuracy, and it remains constant insensitive to the amount of training samples. We have discussed the interesting properties of the prototypal networks. An approximate linear relation is found between the strength and color of vertexes, in which we could compare the structural difference between each category. We have visualized these prototypal networks to show that their topology indeed represents the common characteristics of patterns. We have also shown that the asymmetric strength distribution in these prototypal networks brings high robustness for recognition. Our study may cast a light on understanding the mechanism of the biologic neuronal systems in object recognition as well.
The electrophysiological correlates of successful insight problem solving (Chinese logogriphs) were studied in 18 healthy subjects using high-density event-related potentials (ERPs). A new experimental paradigm (learning-testing model) was adopted in order to make subjects find a solution on their own initiative rather than receive an answer passively. Results showed that Successful guessed logogriphs elicited a more positive ERP deflection (P200-600) than did Unsuccessful guessed logogriphs in the time window from 200 to 600 ms after onset of the stimuli. Subsequently Successful logogriphs elicited a more negative ERP deflection than did Unsuccessful logogriphs in the time windows of 1500-2000 ms (NI 5002000) and 2000-2500 ms (N2000-2500). Maps of the P200-600 showed strong activity in the midline parieto-occipital scalp regions. Dipole analysis localized the generator of P200-600 in the left superior temporal gyrus and parietotemporo-occipital cortex areas. The N1500-2000 and N2000-2500 had a distinct activation over left frontal scalp regions. Dipole analysis localized the generator of the N1500-2000 in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and the N2000-2500 in the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC). This result indicates that the parietotemporo-occipital cortex areas might be involved in forming rich associations in the early stage of successful logogriph solving. Then, the ACC might play an important role in the breaking mental set and the forming of novel associations. At last, "Aha" feeling might activate the PCC. (c) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The key approaches for machine learning, particularly learning in unknown probabilistic environments, are new representations and computation mechanisms. In this paper, a novel quantum reinforcement learning (QRL) method is proposed by combining quantum theory and reinforcement learning (RL). inspired by the state superposition principle and quantum parallelism, a framework of a value-updating algorithm is introduced. The state (action) in traditional RL is identified as the eigen state (eigen action) in QRL. The state (action) set can be represented with a quantum superposition state, and the eigen state (eigen action) can be obtained by randomly observing the simulated quantum state according to the collapse postulate of quantum measurement. The probability of the eigen action is determined by the probability amplitude, which is updated in parallel according to rewards. Some related characteristics of QRL such as convergence, optimality, and balancing between exploration and exploitation are also analyzed, which shows that this approach makes a good tradeoff between exploration and exploitation using the probability amplitude and can speedup learning through the quantum parallelism. To evaluate the performance and practicability of QRL, several simulated experiments are given, and the results demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of the QRL algorithm for some complex problems. This paper is also an effective exploration on the application of quantum computation to artificial intelligence.
In this paper, a new learning algorithm which encodes a priori information into feedforward neural networks is proposed for function approximation problem. The new algorithm considers two kinds of constraints, which are architectural constraints and connection weight constraints, from a priori information of function approximation problem. On one hand, the activation functions of the hidden neurons are specific polynomial functions. On the other hand, the connection weight constraints are obtained from the first-order derivative of the approximated function. The new learning algorithm has been shown by theoretical justifications and experimental results to have better generalization performance and faster convergent rate than other algorithms.
In this study, a multistage nonlinear radial basis function (RBF) neural network ensemble forecasting model is proposed for foreign exchanger rates prediction. In the process of ensemble modeling, the first stage produces a great number of single RBF neural network models. In the second stage, a conditional generalized variance (CGV) minimization method is used to choose the appropriate ensemble members. In the final stage, another RBF network is used for neural network ensemble for prediction purpose. For testing purposes, we compare the new ensemble model's performance with some existing neural network ensemble approaches in terms of four exchange rates series. Experimental results reveal that the predictions using the proposed approach are consistently better than those obtained using the other methods presented in this study in terms of the same measurements. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we generalize the method of mechanical theorem proving in curves to prove theorems about surfaces in differential geometry with a mechanical procedure. We improve the classical result on Wronskian determinant, which can be used to decide whether the elements in a partial differential field are linearly dependent over its constant field. Based on Wronskian determinant, we can describe the geometry statements in the surfaces by an algebraic language and then prove them by the characteristic set method.
This paper presents a network-based analysis approach for the reconfiguration problem of a self-reconfigurable robot. The self-reconfigurable modular robot named "AMOEBA-I" has nine kinds of non-isomorphic configurations that consist of a configuration network. Each configuration of the robot is defined to be a node in the weighted and directed configuration network. The transformation from one configuration to another is represented by a directed path with nonnegative weight. Graph theory is applied in the reconfiguration analysis, where reconfiguration route, reconfigurable matrix and route matrix are defined according to the topological information of these configurations. Algorithms in graph theory have been used in enumerating the available reconfiguration routes and deciding the best reconfiguration route. Numerical analysis and experimental simulation results prove the validity of the approach proposed in this paper. And it is potentially suitable for other self-reconfigurable robots' configuration control and reconfiguration planning.
This paper addresses the cooperation problem for a team of mobile robots in adversarial environments. Considering the mutual influence among the robots, two key factors are defined: the impact factor and the suffering factor. A stochastic assignment model is built, based on the geometric topology of the targets, through which the robots can exhibit temporal cooperation. To reduce computational complexity, a genetic algorithm is employed to optimize the relative weights of the impact factor and the suffering factor, and after that, the Improved Hungarian Algorithm is used to solve the assignment problem. Both simulation and experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper considers the problem of robust consensus for a basic class of multi-agent systems with bounded disturbances and with directed information flow. A necessary and sufficient condition on the robust consensus is first presented, which is then applied to the analysis, control and decision making problems in the noise environments. In particular, the authors show how a soft control technique will synchronize a group of autonomous mobile agents without changing the existing local rule of interactions, and without assuming any kind of connectivity conditions on the system trajectories.
Recursive loops in a logic program present a challenging problem to the PLP ( Probabilistic Logic Programming) framework. On the one hand, they loop forever so that the PLP backward-chaining inferences would never stop. On the other hand, they may generate cyclic influences, which are disallowed in Bayesian networks. Therefore, in existing PLP approaches, logic programs with recursive loops are considered to be problematic and thus are excluded. In this article, we propose a novel solution to this problem by making use of recursive loops to build a stationary dynamic Bayesian network. We introduce a new PLP formalism, called a Bayesian knowledge base. It allows recursive loops and contains logic clauses of the form A <- A(1),...,Al, true, Context, Types, which naturally formulate the knowledge that the A(i)s have direct influences on A in the context Context under the type constraints Types. We use the well- founded model of a logic program to define the direct influence relation and apply SLG- resolution to compute the space of random variables together with their parental connections. This establishes a clear declarative semantics for a Bayesian knowledge base. We view a logic program with recursive loops as a special temporal model, where backward-chaining cycles of the form A <- ... A <- ... are interpreted as feedbacks. This extends existing PLP approaches, which mainly aim at (nontemporal) relational models.
In the paper, an extension of LaSalle's Invariance Principle to a class of switched linear systems is studied. One of the motivations is the consensus problem in multi-agent systems. Unlike most existing results in which each switching mode in the system needs to be asymptotically stable, this paper allows that the switching modes are only Lyapunov stable. Under certain ergodicity assumptions, an extension of LaSalle's Invariance Principle for global asymptotic stability is obtained. Then it is used to solve the consensus reaching problem of certain multi-agent systems in which each agent is modeled by a double integrator, and the associated interaction graph is switching and is assumed to be only jointly connected.
A neutral-type delayed projection neural network is proposed to deal with nonlinear variational inequalities. Compared with the existing delayed neural networks for linear variational inequalities, the proposed approach apparently has the larger application domain. By the theory of functional differential equation, a delay-dependent sufficient stability condition is derived. This stability condition is easily checked, and can guarantee that the proposed neural network is convergent to the solution of nonlinear variational inequality problem exponentially, which improves the existing stability criteria for the neutral-type delayed neural network. Moreover, many related problems, such as the projection equation and optimization problems, can also be dealt with by the proposed method. Finally, simulation examples are given to illustrate the satisfactory performance of the proposed method.
A controller is proposed for the robust backstepping control of a class of nonlinear pure-feedback systems using fuzzy logic. The proposed control scheme utilizes fuzzy logic systems to learn the behavior of the unknown plant dynamics. Filtered signals are employed to circumvent algebraic loop problems encountered in the implementation of the usual controllers, and the approximation errors can be efficiently counteracted by employing smooth robust compensators. Most importantly, the uniform ultimate boundedness of all signals in the closed-loop system can be guaranteed, and a priori knowledge of the plant dynamics is no longer required. Furthermore, the proposed method can be used for adaptive control of a large class of single-input-single-output nonlinear systems in both strict-feedback and pure-feedback forms, and has great potential in many diverse applications. The performance of the proposed approach is demonstrated through three simulation examples, including one nonlinear pure-feedback and two nonlinear strict-feedback systems.
In this paper,. an incoherent control scheme for accomplishing the state control of a class of quantum systems which have wavefunction-controllable subspaces is proposed. This scheme includes the following two steps: projective measurement on the initial state and learning control in the wavefunction-controllable subspace. The first step probabilistically projects the initial state into the wavefunction-controllable subspace. The probability of success is sensitive. to the initial state; however, it can be greatly improved through multiple experiments on several identical initial states even in the case with a small probability of success for an. individual measurement. The second step finds a local optimal control sequence via quantum reinforcement learning and drives the controlled system to the objective state through a set of suitable controls. In this strategy, the initial states can be unknown identical states, the quantum measurement is used as an effective control, and the controlled system is not necessarily unitarily controllable. This incoherent control scheme provides an alternative quantum engineering strategy for locally controllable quantum systems.
Hourly or 3-hourly precipitation data from Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information using Artificial Neural Networks (PERSIANN) and Tropical Rainfall Measuring Mission (TRMM) 3B42 satellite products and rain gauge records are used to characterize East Asian summer monsoon rainfall, including spatial patterns in June-August (JJA) mean precipitation amount, frequency, and intensity, as well as the diurnal and semidiurnal cycles. The results show that the satellite products are comparable to rain gauge data in revealing the spatial patterns of JJA precipitation amount, frequency, and intensity, with pattern correlation coefficients for five subregions ranging from 0.66 to 0.94. The pattern correlation of rainfall amount is higher than that of frequency and intensity. Relative to PERSIANN, the TRMM product has a better resemblance with rain gauge observations in terms of both the pattern correlation and root-meansquare error. The satellite products overestimate rainfall frequency but underestimate its intensity. The diurnal (24 h) harmonic dominates subdaily variations of precipitation over most of eastern China. A late-afternoon maximum over southeastern and northeastern China and a near-midnight maximum over the eastern periphery of the Tibetan Plateau are seen in the rain gauge data. The diurnal phases of precipitation frequency and intensity are similar to those of rainfall amount in most regions, except for the middle Yangtze River valley. Both frequency and intensity contribute to the diurnal variation of rainfall amount over most of eastern China. The contribution of frequency to the diurnal cycle of rainfall amount is generally overestimated in both satellite products. Both satellite products capture well the nocturnal peak over the eastern periphery of the Tibetan Plateau and the late-afternoon peak in southern and northeastern China. Rain gauge data over the region between the Yangtze and Yellow Rivers show two peaks, with one in the early morning and the other later in the afternoon. The satellite products only capture the major late-afternoon peak.
Neocortical action potential responses in vivo are characterized by considerable threshold variability, and thus timing and rate variability, even under seemingly identical conditions. This finding suggests that cortical ensembles are required for accurate sensorimotor integration and processing. Intracellularly, trial-to-trial variability results not only from variation in synaptic activities, but also in the transformation of these into patterns of action potentials. Through simultaneous axonal and somatic recordings and computational simulations, we demonstrate that the initiation of action potentials in the axon initial segment followed by backpropagation of these spikes throughout the neuron results in a distortion of the relationship between the timing of synaptic and action potential events. In addition, this backpropagation also results in an unusually high rate of rise of membrane potential at the foot of the action potential. The distortion of the relationship between the amplitude time course of synaptic inputs and action potential output caused by spike backpropagation results in the appearance of high spike threshold variability at the level of the soma. At the point of spike initiation, the axon initial segment, threshold variability is considerably less. Our results indicate that spike generation in cortical neurons is largely as expected by Hodgkin-Huxley theory and is more precise than previously thought.
A hybrid scheme for the inversion of the Rahman-Pinty-Verstraete (RPV) model is presented. It combines the inversion technique described by Lavergne et a]. (Lavergne, T., Kaminski, T., Pinty, B., Taberner, M., Gobron, N., Verstraete, M.M., Vossbeck, M., Widlowski, J.L., Giering, R. (2007). Application to MISR land products of an RPV model inversion package using adjoint and Hessian codes. Remote Sensing of Environment, 107, 362-375.) and a multilayer backpropagation feedforward neural network. The RPV inversion package is applied to a sample set of pixels within the satellite scene. Subsequently the pairs of bidirectional reflectance factors (BRF) and model parameters estimated from the sample set of pixels are used to train the neural network. Since the mathematical formulation of the RPV model is embedded in these training data variables, the neural network can efficiently retrieve the model parameters for the whole satellite scene. This scheme has been tested for a MISR L2 BRF scene, MISR L1B2-deFived BRF data corresponding to two different dates and a mosaic of MISR L2 BRF scenes acquired over Southern Africa covering a large extent of Miombo woodland. The results show this strategy retrieves the RPV model parameters and uncertainties with high accuracy and considerable speed over large areas. (c) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this article, atom-pairs of compounds, which include abundant three-dimensional information of molecules, were calculated. Vertex's frequency of atom-pairs space distance was applied to describe the frequency of atom pairs, which is better than segment's frequency of atom-pairs. Molecular similarity matrixes based on the two frequencies of atom-pairs in different distances of segments were calculated, respectively, and then these similarities were taken as the new variables. The mathematical models were built by using multiple regression analysis and artificial neural networks and the results were compared. The results of predictions of the activities of HEPT derivatives in both two frequencies are satisfactory.
In the last ten years, the application of neural network models has become an emerging field of research in the field of hydrology. In the present study, three different neural network models, namely the Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) the Jordan net, and the Elman net were used for forecasting water levels at Cuntan station, located at the Yangtze River's upper reaches. The performances of the neural network models were compared with each other and with the results of a multiple linear regression (MLR) model. As input variables for the models, not only were precipitation data and antecedent water levels implemented, but also two climatic variables which are usually left out in the field of neural network modeling: evaporation and snow data. Before the models were adopted, the optimal lead time between the input variables and the model output was determined by means of a cross-correlation analysis. The highly significant correlation between the model input and output already indicated a highly linear relationship. Accordingly, the MLR model showed the best performance, even though the results of the other models are only slightly worse. The good capability of the Jordan net in forecasting high water levels should be investigated further. In predicting water levels in general, the integrated snow data improved the performance of the different models only marginally. However, the integration of evaporation data definitely improved the modeling results.
This paper proposes smart universal multiple-valued (MV) logic gates by transferring single electrons (SEs). The logic gates are based on MOSFET based SE turnstiles that can accurately transfer SEs with high speed at high temperature. The number of electrons transferred per cycle by the SE turnstile is a quantized function of its gate voltage, and this characteristic is fully exploited to compactly finish MV logic operations. First, we build arbitrary MV literal gates by using pairs of SE turnstiles. Then, we propose universal MV logic-to-value conversion gates and MV analog-digital conversion circuits. We propose a SPICE model to describe the behavior of the MOSFET based SE turnstile. We simulate the performances of the proposed gates. The MV logic gates have small number of transistors and low power dissipations.
The collective behavior of multi-agent systems is an important studying point for the investigation of complex systems, and a basic model of multi-agent systems is the so called Vicsek model, which possesses some key features of complex systems, such as dynamic behavior, local interaction, changing neighborhood, etc. This model looks simple, but the nonlinearly coupled relationship makes the theoretical analysis quite complicated. Jadbabaie et al. analyzed the linearized heading equations in this model and showed that all agents will synchronize eventually, provided that the neighbor graphs associated with the agents' positions satisfy a certain connectivity condition. Much subsequent research effort has been devoted to the analysis of the Vicsek model since the publication of Jadbabaie's work. However, an unresolved key problem is when such a connectivity is satisfied. This paper given a sufficient condition to guarantee the synchronization of the Vicsek model, which is imposed on the model parameters only. Moreover, some counterexamples are given to show that the connectivity of the neighbor graphs is not sufficient for synchronization of the Vicsek model if the initial headings are allowed to be in [0, 2 pi), which reveals some fundamental differences between the Vicsek model and its linearized version.
Coastal wetlands are characterized by complex patterns both in their geomorphic and ecological features. Besides field observations, it is necessary to analyze the land cover of wetlands through the color infrared (CIR) aerial photography or remote sensing image. In this paper, we designed an evolving neural network classifier using variable string genetic algorithm (VGA) for the land cover classification of CIR aerial image. With the VGA, the classifier that we designed is able to evolve automatically the appropriate number of hidden nodes for modeling the neural network topology optimally and to find a near-optimal set of connection weights globally. Then, with backpropagation algorithm (BP), it can find the best connection weights. The VGA-BP classifier, which is derived from hybrid algorithms mentioned above, is demonstrated on CIR images classification effectively. Compared with standard classifiers, such as Bayes maximum-likelihood classifier, VGA classifier and BP-MLP (multi-layer perception) classifier, it has shown that the VGA-BP classifier can have better performance on highly resolution land cover classification.
In this paper, we adopted the bounded support vector machine to locate the key long-range interaction sites by the use of predicted local lowest B-factors. As a result, the key long-range interaction residues can be located based on information of local lowest B-factor sites.
This paper proposes an efficient ensemble system to tackle the protein secondary structure prediction problem with neural networks as base classifiers. The experimental results show that the multi-layer system can lead to better results. When deploying more accurate classifiers, the higher accuracy of the ensemble system can be obtained.
In this paper we evaluate the potential of spectral, temporal and angular aspect of remotely sensed data for quantitative extraction of forest structure information in tropical woodlands. Moderate resolution imaging spectroradiometer (MODIS) multispectral data at 500-meter spatial resolution from different dates, multiangle imaging spectroradiometer (MISR) bidirectional reflectance factors (BRF) and normalized difference angular index (NDAI) derived from MISR data at 275-meter spatial resolution were used as input data. The number of trees per hectare bigger than 20cm in diameter at breast height was taken as variable of interest. Simple and multiple ordinary least square regressions and artificial neural networks (ANN) were tested to understand the relationships between the various sources of remotely sensed data and the output variable. An experimental design technique, followed by a classification of the input variables and a factor analysis were implemented in order to understand the structure, reduce the dimensionality of the data and avoid the overfitting of the neural network. The results show that there is a significant amount of independent information in the angular dimension, and this information is highly relevant to the estimation of tree densities in the study area. The MISR NDAI indexes improved the performance of the MISR BRF. The non-linear ANN outperformed the linear regressions. The best results were obtained with the ANN after selecting the input variables according to the results of the experimental design, the classification and the factor analysis, with a 0.71 correlation coefficient against the 0.58 of the best linear regression model. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The design of an artificial fish-like robot and its application ill Cooperative transportation is described in this paper. Although there have been plenty of results obtained in multi-robot cooperation, they are seldom concerned with underwater applications. In this paper, a fish-like robot is designed from the perspective of biomimetics and then, using multiple fish robots, a cooperative transportation task is designed and implemented based Oil l situated action selection approach. The experimental trials are presented to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The problem of building an accurate model and the request of real-time control are often simultaneously encountered in the design of control systems. This paper studies and implements a real-time simplified variable domain fuzzy control method in PEM fuel cell flow systems. The method can achieve not only the fine control over cathode pressure of fuel cell stacks by adjusting the input and output domains, but also the real-time control by activating at most four control rules at a time in the inference process for dual-input controller. The experimental results with no load and under a given load demonstrate good performance of this method. The method might also be utilized in other similar processes.
A portable shape-shifting mobile robot system named as Amoeba II (A-II) is developed for the urban search and rescue application. It is designed with three degrees of freedom and two tracked drive systems. This robot consists of two modular mobile units and a joint unit. The mobile unit is a tracked mechanism to enforce the propulsion of robot. And the joint unit can transform the robot shape to get high environment adaptation. A-II robot can not only adapt to the environment but also change its body shape according to the locus space. It behaves two work states including the linear state (named as I state) and the parallel state (named as II state). With the linear state the robot can climb upstairs and go through narrow space such as the pipe, cave, etc. The parallel state enables the robot with high mobility on rough ground. Also, the joint unit can propel the robot to roll in sidewise direction. Two modular A-II robots can be connected through jointing common interfaces on the joint unit to compose a stronger shape-shifting robot, which can transform the body into four wheels-driven vehicle. The experimental results validate the adaptation and mobility of A-II robot.
Real-time rapid prediction of variations of the Earth's rotational rate is of great scientific and practical importance. However, due to the complicated time-variable characteristics of variations of the Earth's rotational rate (i.e., length of day, LOD), it is usually difficult to obtain satisfactory predictions by conventional linear time series analysis methods. This study employs the nonlinear artificial neural networks (ANN) to predict the LOD variations. The topology of the ANN model is determined by minimizing the root mean square errors (RMSE) of the predictions. Considering the close relationships between the LOD variations and the atmospheric circulation movement, the operational prediction series of axial atmospheric angular momentum (AAM) is incorporated into the ANN model as an additional input in the real-time rapid prediction of LOD variations with 1-5 days ahead. The results show that the LOD prediction is significantly improved after introducing the operational prediction series of AAM into the ANN model.
In this paper, a new active visual system is developed, which is based on bionic vision and is insensitive to the property of the cameras. The system consists of a mechanical platform and two cameras. The mechanical platform has two degrees of freedom of motion in pitch and yaw, which is equivalent to the neck of a humanoid robot. The cameras are mounted on the platform. The directions of the optical axes of the two cameras can be simultaneously adjusted in opposite directions. With these motions, the object's images can be located at the centers of the image planes of the two cameras. The object's position is determined with the geometry information of the visual system. A more general model for active visual positioning using two cameras without a neck is also investigated. The position of an object can be computed via the active motions. The presented model is less sensitive to the intrinsic parameters of cameras, which promises more flexibility in many applications such as visual tracking with changeable focusing. Experimental results verify the effectiveness of the proposed methods.
Network intrusion detection aims at distinguishing the attacks on the Internet from normal use of the Internet. It is an indispensable part of the information security system. Due to the variety of network behaviors and the rapid development of attack fashions, it is necessary to develop fast machine-learning-based intrusion detection algorithms with high detection rates and low false-alarm rates. In this correspondence, we propose an intrusion detection algorithm based on the AdaBoost algorithm. In the algorithm, decision stumps are used as weak classifiers. The decision rules are provided for both categorical and continuous features. By combining the weak classifiers for continuous features and the weak classifiers for categorical features into a strong classifier, the relations between these two different types of features are handled naturally, without any forced conversions between continuous and categorical features. Adaptable initial weights and a simple strategy for avoiding overfitting are adopted to improve the performance of the algorithm. Experimental results show that our algorithm has low computational complexity and error rates, as compared with algorithms of higher computational complexity, as tested on the benchmark sample data.
We present an algorithm which can realize 3D stereo vision simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) for mobile robot in unknown outdoor environments, which means the 6-DOF motion and a sparse but persistent map of natural landmarks be constructed online only with a stereo camera. In mobile robotics research, we extend FastSLAM 2.0 like stereo vision SLAM with "pure vision" domain to outdoor environments. Unlike popular stochastic motion model used in conventional monocular vision SLAM, we utilize the ideas of structure from motion (SFM) for initial motion estimation, which is more suitable for the robot moving in-large-scale outdoor, and textured environments. SIFT features are used as natural landmarks, and its 3D positions are constructed directly through triangulation. Considering the computational complexity and memory consumption, Bkd-tree and Best-Bin-First (BBF) search strategy are utilized for SIFT feature descriptor matching. Results show high accuracy of our algorithm, even in the circumstance of large translation and large rotation movements.
Aim: To develop an artificial neural network model for predicting the resistance index (RI) of taxoids. Methods: A dataset of 63 experimental data points were compiled from published studies and randomly subdivided into training and external test sets. Electrotopological state (E-state) indices were calculated to characterize molecular structure together with a principle component analysis to reduce the variable space and analyze the relative importance of E-state indices. Back propagation neural network technique was used to build the models. Five-fold cross-validation was performed and 5 models with different compound composition in training and validation sets were built. The independent external test set was used to evaluate the predictive ability of models. Results: The final model proved to be good with the cross-validation Q(cv)(2)0.62, external testing R-2 0.84, and the slope of the regression line through the origin for the testing set at 0.9933. Conclusion: The quantitative structure-activity relationship model can predict the RI to a relative nicety, which will aid in the development of new anti-multidrug resistance taxoids.
In this paper the consensus problem is considered for multi-agent systems, in which all agents have an identical linear dynamic mode that can be of any order. The main result is that if the adjacent topology of the graph is frequently connected then the consensus is achievable via local-information-based decentralized controls, provided that the linear dynamic mode is completely controllable. Consequently, many existing results become particular cases of this general result. In this paper, the case of fixed connected topology is discussed first. Then the case of switching connected topology is considered. Finally, the general case is studied where the graph topology is switching and only connected often enough.
In this paper, we consider a consensus problem of a group of mobile agents interconnected by a star-like topology. Not all the state variables of the agent in the center of the group are available for its neighbors. A distributed controller together with a local state-estimation rule is given for each agent who has to estimate the unmeasurable velocity. Then, with help of virtual equivalent agents, we prove that, with the proposed control scheme, the group of agents can reach its consensus.
A class of decentralized tracking-type games is considered for large population multi-agent systems (MAS). The agents are described by stochastic discrete-time auto-regressive models with exogenous inputs (ARX models), and coupled together through their individual dynamics and performance indexes by terms of the unknown population state average (PSA). The performance index of each agent to minimize is a stochastic long term averaged group-tracking-type functional, in which there is a nonlinear term of the unknown PSA. The control law is decentralized and implemented via the Nash certainty equivalence principle. By probability limit theory, under mild conditions it is shown that: (a) the estimate of the PSA is strongly consistent; (b) the closed-loop system is stable almost surely, and the stability is independent of the number N of agents; (c) the decentralized control law is an asymptotic Nash equilibrium almost surely or in probability according to the property of the nonlinear coupling function in the performance indexes. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper is concerned with a leader-follower problem for a multi-agent system with a switching interconnection topology. Distributed observers are designed for the second-order follower-agents, under the common assumption that the velocity of the active leader cannot be measured in real time. Some dynamic neighbor-based rules, consisting of distributed controllers and observers for the autonomous agents, are developed to keep updating the information of the leader. With the help of an explicitly constructed common Lyapunov function (CLF), it is proved that each agent can follow the active leader. Moreover, the tracking error is estimated even in a noisy environment. Finally, a numerical example is given for illustration. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The Monte-Carlo samples of pion, kaon and proton generated from 0.3 GeV/c to 1.2 GeV/c by the 'tester' generator from SIMBES which are used to simulate the detector of BES II are identified with the Bayesian neural networks (BNN). The pion identification and misidentification efficiencies are obviously better at high momentum region using BNN than the methods of chi(2) analysis of dE/dX and TOF information. The kaon identification and misidentification efficiencies are obviously better from 0.3 GeV/c to 1.2 GeV/c using BNN than the methods of chi(2) analysis. The proton identification and misidentification efficiencies using BNN axe basically consistent with the ones of chi(2) analysis. The anti-proton identification and misidentification efficiencies are better below 0.6 GeV/c using BNN than the methods of chi(2) analysis.
Polyphenylene sulfide (PPS) composites filled with short carbon fibers (SCFs) (up to 15 vol.%) and sub-micro-scale TiO2 particles (up to 7 vol.%,) were prepared by extrusion and subsequently injection-molding. Based on the results of sliding wear tests, the tribological behavior of these materials was investigated using an artificial neural network (ANN) approach. A synergistic effect of the incorporated short carbon fibers and sub-micro TiO2 particles is reported. The lowest specific wear rate was obtained for the composition of PPS with 15 vol.% SCF and 5 vol.% TiO2. A more optimal composition of PPS with 15 vol.% SCF and 6 vol.% TiO2 was estimated according to ANN prediction. The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observation revealed that this hybrid reinforcement could be interpreted in terms of a positive rolling effect of the particles between the two sliding surfaces, which protected the short carbon fibers from being pulled-out of the PPS matrix. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Aims
Due to the complexity of economic system and the interactive effects between all kinds of economic variables and foreign trade, it is not easy to predict foreign trade volume. However, the difficulty in predicting foreign trade volume is usually attributed to the limitation of many conventional forecasting models. To improve the prediction performance, the study proposes a novel kernel-based ensemble learning approach hybridizing econometric models and artificial intelligence (AI) models to predict China's foreign trade volume. In the proposed approach, an important econometric model, the co-integration-based error correction vector auto-regression (EC-VAR) model is first used to capture the impacts of all kinds of economic variables on Chinese foreign trade from a multivariate linear analysis perspective. Then an artificial neural network (ANN) based EC-VAR model is used to capture the nonlinear effects of economic variables on foreign trade from the nonlinear viewpoint. Subsequently, for incorporating the effects of irregular events on foreign trade, the text mining and expert's judgmental adjustments are also integrated into the nonlinear ANN-based EC-VAR model. Finally, all kinds of economic variables, the outputs of linear and nonlinear EC-VAR models and judgmental adjustment model are used as input variables of a typical kernel-based support vector regression (SVR) for ensemble prediction purpose. For illustration, the proposed kernel-based ensemble learning methodology hybridizing econometric techniques and AI methods is applied to China's foreign trade volume prediction problem. Experimental results reveal that the hybrid econometric-AI ensemble learning approach can significantly improve the prediction performance over other linear and nonlinear models listed in this study.
In this paper, a cellular neural network with depressing synapses for contrast-invariant pattern classification and synchrony detection is presented, starting from the impulse model of the single-electron tunneling junction. The results of the impulse model and the network are simulated using simulation program with integrated circuit emphasis (SPICE). It is demonstrated that depressing synapses should be an important candidate of robust systems since they exhibit a rapid depression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials for successive presynaptic spikes.
One of the important topics in knowledge base revision is to introduce an efficient implementation algorithm. Algebraic approaches have good characteristics and implementation method; they may be a choice to solve the problem. An algebraic approach is presented to revise propositional rule-based knowledge bases in this paper. A way is firstly introduced to transform a propositional rule-based knowledge base into a Petri net. A knowledge base is represented by a Petri net, and facts are represented by the initial marking. Thus, the consistency check of a knowledge base is equivalent to the reachability problem of Petri nets. The reachability of Petri nets can be decided by whether the state equation has a solution; hence the consistency check can also be implemented by algebraic approach. Furthermore, algorithms are introduced to revise a propositional rule-based knowledge base, as well as extended logic programming. Compared with related works, the algorithms presented in the paper are efficient, and the time complexities of these algorithms are polynomial.
Neuronal oscillations have been suggested to play an important role in information processing in the brain. Using spectral analysis, we have recently shown that the repetitive burst-like firing in many dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) can be described as a slow oscillation (SO) in firing rate. In this study, we examined whether DA neurons in the adjacent substantia nigra (SN) also display a SO. DA neurons were recorded extracellularly using the cells/track technique in chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats. Spectral analysis showed that firing patterns of SN DA neurons exhibited a SO similar to that observed in VTA DA neurons. The amplitude of the SO, however, was much reduced in the SN compared with that in the VITA and so was the number of DA neurons qualified as high-SO cells. In high-SO DA neurons, the amplitude of the SO was strongly correlated with the degree of bursting, and this correlation was observed in both the VTA and SN. In low-SO cells, however, the SO was more significantly correlated with the variability of firing than with firing rate and bursting. Since the generation of the SO depends on afferent inputs to DA neurons, a better understanding of its difference between the SN and VTA may provide important insights into the neural networks that control DA neurons in the two areas.
Land use/land cover (LULC) has a profound impact on economy, society and environment, especially in rapid developing areas. Rapid and prompt monitoring and predicting of LULC's change are crucial and significant. Currently, integration of Geographical Information System (GIS) and Remote Sensing (RS) methods is one of the most important methods for detecting LULC's change, which includes image processing (such as geometrical-rectifying, supervised-classification, etc.), change detection (post-classification), GIS-based spatial analysis, Markov chain and a Cellular Automata (CA) models, etc. The core corridor of Pearl River Delta was selected for studying LULC's change in this paper by using the above methods for the reason that the area contributed 78.31% (1998)-81.4% (2003) of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to the whole Pearl River Delta (PRD). The temporal and spatial LULC's changes from 1998 to 2003 were detected by RS data. At the same time, urban expansion levels in the next 5 and 10 years were predicted temporally and spatially by using Markov chain and a simple Cellular Automata model respectively. Finally, urban expansion and farmland loss were discussed against the background of China's urban expansion and cropland loss during 1990-2000. The result showed: (1) the rate of urban expansion was up to 8.91% during 1998-2003 from 169,078.32 to 184,146.48 ha; (2) the rate of farmland loss was 5.94% from 312,069.06 to 293,539.95 ha; (3) a lot of farmland converted to urban or development area, and more forest and grass field converted to farmland accordingly; (4) the spatial predicting result of urban expansion showed that urban area was enlarged ulteriorly compared with the previous results, and the directions of expansion is along the existing urban area and transportation lines.
In this paper, two modified constrained learning algorithms are proposed to obtain better generalization performance and faster convergence rate. The additional cost terms of the first algorithm are selected based on the first-order derivatives of the activation functions of the hidden neurons and the second-order derivatives of the activation functions of the output neurons, while the additional cost terms of the second one are selected based on the first-order derivatives of the activation functions of the output neurons and the second-order derivatives of the activation functions of the hidden neurons. In the course of training, the additional cost terms of the proposed algorithms can penalize the input-to-output mapping sensitivity and the high frequency components simultaneously so that the better generalization performance can be obtained. Finally, theoretical justifications and simulation results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of our proposed learning algorithms. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this paper, AdaBoost algorithm, a popular and effective prediction method, is applied to predict the subcellular locations of Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic Proteins-a dataset derived from SWISSPROT 33.0. Its prediction ability was evaluated by re-substitution test, Leave-One-Out Cross validation (LOOCV) and jackknife test. By comparing its results with some most popular predictors such as Discriminant Function, neural networks, and SVM, we demonstrated that the AdaBoost predictor outperformed these predictors. As a result, we arrive at the conclusion that AdaBoost algorithm could be employed as a robust method to predict subcellular location. An online web server for predicting subcellular location of prokaryotic and eukaryotic proteins is available at http://chemdata.shu.edu.cn/subcell/.
This study investigated the use of Fourier transform infrared photoacoustic spectroscopy (FTIR-PAS) for rapid identification of agricultural soil samples. The PAS spectra of 166 air-dried samples belonging to five Mediterranean soil types most common in Israeli agriculture were recorded. The various soil types exhibited distinctive mid-IR bands, especially around the 2900-3700 cm(-2), 2500-2550 cm(-1), 1800-2050 cm(-1) and 900-1600 cm(-1) regions. Following smoothing and normalization of the spectra, principal component analysis (PCA) was used to reduce the dimensionality of the data and the PCA scores were used in classifiers based either on linear discriminant analysis or on probabilistic neural networks. The two classifiers based on four PCA scores yielded very similar results and correctly identified over 96% of the 77 validation samples. Comparison with the attenuated total reflectance (ATR) spectra of similar soils used in a previous study showed that the PAS spectra contained more information than the ATR ones, both in terms of the number of soil-specific bands and in terms of the bands' distinctiveness. The results clearly show that FTIR-PAS can be used for rapid soil identification and the abundance of information in the PAS spectra indicates that this technique could be further developed to assess important soil features. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A new autonomous reconfigurable control scheme using control allocation is proposed in this paper. The shortcomings of other adaptive reconfigurable control methods, such as neural networks and sliding modes, are analyzed. On the other hand, the merits of control allocation based reconfiguration methods are given out. The dynamic control allocation method and a weighting matrix autonomous adjustment strategy are designed for control reconfiguration in the face of actuator damage faults. The validity of the proposed scheme is illustrated by the F18 HARV aircraft model. Simulation results show that autonomous reconfigurable flight control via control allocation can be carried out in the presence of actuator faults and satisfactory system performance can be obtained. The sequential quadratic programming method is used simultaneously in simulation for the sake of comparisons with the dynamic control allocation approach. Simulation results demonstrate the advantages of the latter for reconfigurable flight control.
A novel method is developed to effectively manipulating nano-entities to predefined positions and orientations autonomously. In this method, the nanomanipulation process is programmed by planning and executing the AFM tip's movement, and the amplitude of probe-tip's vibration is measured in real-time to detect the boundary of the nano-entities under manipulation - which will change as a function of the distance between the probe-tip and a nano-entity due to their inter-molecular force interactions. After the start-position and destination are defined by the user interface software, the nanomanipulation process is operated automatically. The result from each manipulation step is detected and used as the information for feedback control on the subsequent operating step. Using this method, CNTs can be manipulated to any position and orientation. Experimental results show that this manipulation method is effective and more efficient (reduce operation time by >50%) than nanomanipulation processes with a human operator in the feedback loop.
Multi-agent cooperation logics, which provide powerful tool for modeling knowledge-based systems and cooperative problem solving process, gained great research interest in multi-agent systems community in the last five years. ATEL (Alternating-time Temporal Epistemic Logic) which is an important kind of multi-agent cooperation logics only takes knowledge into account, but does not deal with belief of agents. To solve this problem, firstly, general concurrent game structures are developed by extending concurrent game structures. Secondly, by introducing three kinds of belief operators into ATEL, a new multi-agent cooperation logic named ATBKL (Alternating-time Temporal Belief and Knowledge Logic) is developed Thirdly, a model checking algorithm is presented, and it is proved that the model checking complexity of ATBKL is PTIME-complete. Lastly, several desired properties of ATBKL are gained and proved. As a result, an expressive and powerful tool is developed for knowledge-based systems modeling. Further research is undertaken to model cooperative problem solving process based on this new logic.
This paper presents a novel service discovery framework for ubiquitous computing called Hierarchical Ubiquitous Computing Service Discovery Framework (HUCSDF). HUCSDF offers a more flexible and scalable architecture which can combine the local services with remote services. Based on the novel architecture, HUCSDF possesses some useful characteristics such as supporting migration of user's personal computing environment, group collaboration, interoperation with other kind of services and integration of context-aware information. These characteristics make HUCSDF different from many other service discovery frameworks and more adaptive to ubiquitous computing environments.
How to retrieve more and more 3D models is the important point in pervasive computing. In this paper, a novel ensembling neural network (NN)-based 3d model retrieval method is proposed. Firstly, four NNs are trained by constructed learning algorithm (CLA). These four NNs are trained by using difference feature of models. And then NN assembles are employed to retrieve 3d models. The experiments show that the supervised learning increased the power of retrieval.
In this paper, we present a framework of modeling concept sketch and sketching interaction based on context-awareness. And an operational model for sketching interface has been developed. This new model can guide and help new sketch-based interface development. From a software engineering point Of view, the operational model can be implemented as a basic class with a set of standard operational functions. New applications with different context contents can be easily derived from it and developed further. This framework can support all the tasks that are common across applications, requiring the interface designer to only provide support for the application-specific tasks. This new operational model has been implemented and tested with different context. It is capable of and applicable for modeling various sketching interfaces and applications.
In this paper, we present a framework of modeling concept sketch and sketching interaction based on context-awareness. And an operational model for sketching interface has been developed This new model can guide and help new sketch-based interface development. From a software engineering point Of view, the operational model can be implemented as a basic class with a set of standard operational functions. New applications with different context contents can be easily derived from it and developed further. This framework can support all the tasks that are common across applications, requiring the interface designer to only provide support for the application-specific tasks. This new operational model has been implemented and tested with different context. It is capable of and applicable for modeling various sketching interfaces and applications.
In order to obtain accurate and reliable network planning in the RFID communications system, the locations of readers and the associated values for each of the reader parameters have to be determined. All these choice must optimize a set of objectives, such as coverage, economic efficiency, load balance and interference between readers. In this paper, we develop an mathematical model for planning RFID networks based on the application of two powerful optimization techniques known as Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs) and Swarm Intelligence (SI). We present a comparative study for two EAs, namely Genetic Algorithm (CA) and Evolution Strategy (ES), and one SI algorithm, namely Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), on the RFID networks planning (RNP) problem. All the algorithms are evaluated against a test scenario (a 30m X 30m working space with 10 readers and 100 tags), which is subdivided into areas with different requirements. The simulation results show that the PSO algorithm obtains the superior solution for RNP problem than the other two EAs in terms of optimization accuracy and computation robustness.
The greatest benefit of Embedded Web Server (EWS) is without a doubt the availability of a standard connection to non-Internet devices using the Internet. Since the use of Web server in Ubiquitous Computing opens new method for maintaining and supervising non-Internet devices, Web server has become a helpful tool for users to control and manage these non-Internet devices remotely. In this paper, we propose an efficient and lightweight EWS-Webit and evaluate how far it can be said to give the users fast and user-friendly ways to access, monitor, control and configure non-Internet devices with standard Web browsers in real-time. We also describe the architecture of Webit in detail and present how to design and implement it Finally we compare the results of Webit's performance with those of other similar EWS products.
The process by which the resource environment interacts with the socioeconomic environment is one complex system composed of society, economy, resource and environment. In this process, the resource environment-socioeconomic environment system, as a whole, is a grey system. Based on the analysis of the developmental changes in a specific small town resource environment, and the relationship between the resource environment and the socioeconomic environment, this paper formulates a model Of coordinative development within the grey system theory. Taking the Hengdian town-a national sustainable development experimental unit in the Zhejiang province of China as an example, the study concludes that the resource environment and the socioeconomic environment in the Hengdian town showed a trend towards coordinative development between the years 2000 and 2006. This conclusion accords with the actual development status of the Hengdian town, thereby demonstrating the validity of the model.
A novel model-based method for odometry calculation of all-terrain mobile robots is proposed in this paper. Using an all-terrain mobile robot with passively compliant mechanism as an instance, this paper grasps the wheel slip as a key factor affecting the accuracy of odometry calculation by investigating the physical contact relationship between the wheel and the terrain. Firstly, the wheel slip model involving rolling slip, side slip and turning slip is investigated. Then, the whole kinematics model of the robot is built considering the above wheel slips. Finally, the odometry information is achieved based on solving the kinematics model of the robot and the dead-reckon operation. Both theoretical analyses and experimental results testify the correctness and validity of this method. Moreover, the odometry calculation method proposed in this paper can be easily performed based on on-board sensors without taking extra hardware cost.
The principle of fuzzy control and its application in automatic route tracking of smartcar are presented in the paper. The fuzzy controller is established to control the steering servo motor of the smartcar. Simulation of the designed controller based on MATLAB fuzzy logical toolbox is proposed. And the fuzzy controller is realized using Freescale fuzzy inference machine. It is successfully applied in the automatic route tracking. The hardware design of the smartcar is introduced. Then, the process of establishing the fuzzy controller is described in detail, including the choice of fuzzy input and output variables, linguistic values, domain, input and output membership functions, rule base, fuzzification, rule inference, defuzzification. The validity of the designed controller is verified by MATLAB simulation and actual operating results.
Based on rough sets reducts, a new neural network ensemble method is proposed. Reducts with robustness and good generalization ability are achieved by a dynamic reduction technology. Then according to different reducts, multiple BP neural networks are designed as base classifiers. And with the idea of selective ensemble, the best neural network ensemble can be found by some search strategies. Finally, by combining the predictions of component networks with voting rule, classification can be implemented. Compared with conventional ensemble feature selection algorithms, less time and lower computing complexity is needed of the method in this paper.
To improve the performance of electronic commerce recommendation system (ECRS), the system implement frame by case-based reasoning (CBR) and artificial immune system (AIS) is proposed. The inner mechanism of AIS is analyzed, in leaning subsystem of ECRS, the AIS implement cycles such as antigen identifying, initial antibody population generating, affinity calculating, clone selecting, population updating and so on are studied. The key techniques of CBR for reasoning subsystem of ECRS such as case representation, case retrieval, case adaptation and case maintenance are introduced. The ECRS is tested by history record information of some website, the result demonstrates that both the recommendation accuracy and reasoning response velocity are improved, the ECRS frame based on CBR and AIS is a potent one.
This paper addresses the problem of planning paths for multiple mobile robots moving in the same environments. We try to decrease the computational complexity of path planning, which is one of the fundamental limiting characteristics in the existing work of path planning. Unlike many other approaches to this problem, we assume the robots are restricted by the limited-communication range such that information about other robots can be known only when they move close to each other. In our method, the computationally expensive problem is decomposed into two modules-path planning and velocity planning. Such decomposition makes approaches of path planning for multiple mobile robots applicable. Trajectory for each robot is achieved by using the approach named Vector Field Histogram (VFH) before the robots begin to move. Then the conflicts among robots are solved by adjusting the velocities of robots. Velocity planning occurs only inside the robots that are in the same network. The method of planning velocities for the robots is called the dynamic priority assignment, which can minimize the total waiting time of robots in the same network. Finally, both simulated and real-robot experiments have validated our approach.
Some biped or wheeled-base humanoid robots have waist mechanism in their body structures. Humanoid robots with waist mechanism have large workspace and high agility. A novel waist configuration with parallel driving motor was introduced in this paper. This waist mechanism is driven by the differential-gear closed transmission. It can realize its pitch and yaw motion separately and composite motion of pitch and yaw. The direct and inverse kinematic model of the waist mechanism was built and the Rosolved Motion Rate Control Strategy based on the kinematic model of the waist mechanism was designed in this paper. The experimental research on the kinematic characteristic of the waist mechanism was also finished. The result shows the response speed of the waist mechanism is fast and the lowest space position tracing error is 0.1 degree.
In this paper, a newly vision-based localization method for mobile robots is presented. The cost of hardware for this localization system is very low. Based on background subtraction and optical flow tracking, the presented method overcomes the shortcoming of general background subtracting method- being sensitive to noises and interferences of other mobile objects. Besides, the presented method is enough robust to find the new optical flow point after it is lost. Experiments reveal that this presented method is effective and is able to meet needs of localization for mobile robots.
In this paper, a new criterion is estiblished for global robust asymptotic stability of a class of interval neural networks with multiple constant delays via the Lyapunov-Krasovskii stability theory and the linear matrix inequality (LMI) approach. A numerical example is also given to show the effectiveness of our results.
Global path planning is one of the key techniques of robots' intelligent control system, whose purpose is to find a collision-free path from the source position to the destination position according to some optimization criteria. The shaft robot's global path planning in two-dimensional map is used as the study model to illuminate the path planning method of robot system based on simulated annealing dissipative Ant system. Comparing with the traditional Ant System, the simulated annealing algorithm is used to enhance the global research ability of the method. Only the iterative best path is updated to increase the learning speed of the method. And the additional chaotic negative entropy is added in the system, which can be used to escape from the local minima and get the satisfied result. Finally the simulation results are provided to show the validity of the algorithm.
Because the parameters of a car-engine are of the discreteness, nonlinear and uncertain characteristics, it is hard to control accurately the excess air coefficient and the spark advance angle in dynamic procedure. A self-adapting control based on immune neural network was proposed. It absorbs well the advantages both off-line optimization of the fuzzy control parameters on genetic arithmetic and on-line regulation on an immune neural network. Self-adaptive immune regulation based on BP neural network was probed on the basis of the fuzzy control parameters' optimization. The experiment results demonstrate that the dynamic performances, economic performances and self- adaptation are all improved obviously.
Use of embedded technology to transplant Linux into ARM9 chip SKC2410, buildup fully functional operating platform; use of fuzzy control theory to analysis the traffic flow information, so that make the signal control to intelligent. This paper introduces the solutions of system hardware selection and circuit design and control algorithms and application software for the intelligent traffic control system, which can capture photo of illegal driving and induction vehicles intelligently.
The main process in hydroponics plants cultivating is aquatic induction. Aquatic induction is the process of cultivating plants in the right artificial environment to induce aerenchyma formation, which can make plants be grown in water. With long-time practices and researches, rules and environment parameters for aquatic induction was summarized. And a set of fuzzy control system for hydroponics cultivating was developed. Making use of the experience from practices, a method was put forward to control dissolved oxygen, CO2 and EC in some hydroponics cultivating greenhouses without oxygen detector, CO2 detector and EC detector. The result of the system running shows that the system can achieve hydroponics cultivating without watchers.
In this paper, we discuss the collective behaviors of a group of autonomous agents. Hierarchical analysis and control are considered to explore the evolution and coordination controllability of multi-agent systems. Multi-agent grouping and interaction structures are investigated with help of graph and lattice theory. By extending the existing works on dynamic graphs, we establish a hierarchical model to describe multi-agent coordination controllability with the consistence between high-level graph dynamics and low-level agent dynamics.
An omnidirectional mobile manipulator, due to its large-scale mobility and dexterous manipulability, has attracted lots of attention in the last decades. However, modeling and control of such a system are very challenging because of its complicated mechanism. In this paper, we achieve the kinematics of the mobile platform according to its mechanical structure firstly, and then deduce its unified dynamic model by Lagrangian formalism. By applying the unified model to calculate the coupling torque vector between the mobile platform and the robot arm, an adaptive hybrid controller is proposed subsequently. This controller consists of two parts: one is responsible for the tracking control of the mobile platform in kinematics. The other part is for the robot arm in dynamics. For further consideration of unmodeled dynamics and external disturbances, a Radial Basis Function Neural-Network (RBFNN) is adopted in the adaptive controller. Simulation results show the correctness of the presented model and the effectiveness of the control scheme.
In semiconductor manufacturing, finding an efficient way for scheduling a cluster tools is crucial for productivity improvement and cost reduction. hi this paper, we investigate the cycle scheduling problem with time window constrains in cluster tools. The objective is to minimize the cycle time. To solve the problem, we present a searching algorithm which based on linear programming model and the collision detection strategy. The algorithm uses the fundamental period as controlling parameters to generate all the possible permutations of robot action sequence in the cycle. A linear programming model is then used to find the optimal schedule for each of these permutations based on our constraints. To avoid the collision of robot action, we solve it with slide and stretch strategy. The experiments of Spin Coater demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed algorithm
The wheel-based humanoid robots with waist mechanism have large workspace and high agility. The humanoid robot in this paper has a waist mechanism with two parallel driving motors. The waist mechanism connects the vehicle with the hunk of the humanoid robot. The dynamic characteristic of the waist mechanism is affected by the dynamic characteristic of arms and vehicle and the external forces or torques, as well as by the motion of its own. This paper firstly built the whole dynamic model of the humanoid robot using the effective Newton-Buler Algorithm and then built the dynamic model of the waist mechanism through simplifying the whole dynamic model without consideration of coupling motion of the joints. The simplified dynamic model expresses the dynamic relation among the vehicle, waist and arms of the humanoid robot, minimizes the calculation and is convenient for realizing the control algorithm based on the dynamic model. This paper presented the PD control and the calculated torques method for compensating the torque disturb as the control strategy of the waist mechanism based on its dynamic model. The simulation shows the control algorithm remarkably improves tie position tracing precision of the waist mechanism and improves the work precision of the humanoid robot.
It is proposed to use anchor manipulators to provide a stable operating environment for underwater remotely operated vehicles (ROVs) in this paper. The kinematics equation of ROVs-Manipulators system is modeled and the motion planning of ROVs-Manipulators system (ROVMS) is described, then, a task-priority redundancy inverse kinematic solution technique based on weighted-least norm (WLN) solution is developed which address twofold aims-one for avoiding joint limit and controlling the manipulator end-effectors position, and other for limiting configuration of the ROVs vehicle. Computational aspects of the solutions are also considered in view of real-time implementation of a kinematic control algorithm. The method is applied to ROVs mounded with a five-degree-of-freedom SIWR-II Underwater-manipulator. The results from computer simulations demonstrate its effectiveness.
Contemporary ubiquitous devices unleash the boundary of one-to-one human-computer interaction, e.g., it has become a de facto style of facilitating social events that users use several distributed devices through multimodal interaction. How we will produce the ubiquitous devices for people to access multimodal media in different context is an interesting yet challenging problem? In this paper, we explore "ubi-media computing", as a bio/silicon inter-device interaction/reaction, and media/data communications. In examining various novel technologies, this paper ventures into the unknown territory of bio/nano devices with applications to develop: novel devices that realize ubiquitous computing, multimodal interactions between human and these ubiquitous devices, and the need of adaptive multimedia.
Wheeled mobile robots have been widely investigated and put into many applications such as planet surface exploration fields and other rough terrain situations. Yaw calculation is of importance for mobile robots to autonomously navigate and control. Sensor-based methods for calculating robot's yaw found their limits in the situations where sensor data are not sufficiently applicable or badly noised, especially for planet exploration robots. This paper proposed a novel model-based method for yaw calculation of an all-terrain mobile robot with passively compliant mechanisms. The robot's kinematical model is built considering wheel slips and the physical wheel-terrain contact relationship. Treating the all-terrain mobile robot as a series-parallel multi-body system, we can directly build the robot's kinematical model based on closed velocity chain theory. The yaw calculation can be easily finished by detecting wheel encoder data and solving the kinematical model of the robot. Several experiments were performed to test the validity and usefulness of this method. This kinematics-based yaw calculation method also proved its robustness and real-time performance.
the paper proposed a particle filter based and Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) aided Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) strategy. The proposed method aims at solving two troublesome problems in the traditional particle filter based SLAM algorithms. The first problem is high dimension of question space; and the second one is multi-date association. Firstly, the paper analysed the model of the WSN aided SLAM problem. Then noises in the model were analysed. According to analyses, a particle filtering algorithm was developed as the kernel algorithm for data fusion. Detailed procedures of the particle filter were introduced. Besides, all key steps, including initialization, prediction, sequential importance sampling and also resampling, were especially specified. Software simulations were done to analyse and prove the validity and the efficiency of the proposed method. The simulation results supported that the proposed method can diminish dimensions of the SLAM problem and resolve the multi-data association problems. Moreover, through adopting PF algorithm and involving WSN, following advantages were also acquired: firstly, the method could locate blind nodes in WSN with high resolution while no anchor node was available; secondly, it could improve precision of localization and mapping for mobile robots and, especially, it could inhibit error accumulation of dead reckoning without requirement of close-loop.
This paper presents our work on analysis of helical gait for snake-like robots. Although helical gait of snakelike robots was realized before, there is no any intensive investigation about the relationship between its performance and the control parameter settings. In this paper, we firstly introduce our SIA snake-like robot and its helical gait equations, then derive the snake-like robot's body shape which is used for control, finally perform some comparative experiments to pursue the characteristics of the helical gait.
This paper presents a new fast histogram matching algorithm for tracking the position and orientation of robots without the help of any odometers. Histogram avoids extracting geometrical primitives from the sensor data, acts independently from odometers, and is easy to be implemented. Here, the authors employ it to analyze laser scan data. A new concept named "hierarchical histogram structure" is introduced for constructing and matching histograms. This structure makes full use of the information in a laser scan and speeds up the histogram matching to a satisfying level. Computational complexity analysis and experiments show the feasibility of the new algorithm both mathematically and factually.
Three basic sub-problems of screw theory are acceptable for some particular configuration manipulators' inverse kinematics, which can not solve the inverse kinematics of all configuration manipulators. A new sub-problem is extended based on sub-problem 2, that is, rotation about two disjoint axes, and the inverse kinematics thereof is solved in this paper. Based on the extended sub-problem, a manipulator, the inverse kinematics of which can not be solved by the three sub-problems without the participation of the new sub-problem, is constructed. The inverse kinematics of the manipulator is solved with the help of the extended sub-problem, therefore a close-form solution expressed by motion screw is gained.
This paper proposes a fuzzy coordination control method among a group of distributed robots using only vision. A leading robot moves along a predetermined trajectory, and other robots called coordinators endeavor to establish the relationship with the leader, by keeping the relative distance and visual observation angle. The distance to be kept is adjusted by fuzzy logic, which outputs the velocity of the robot. The experimental results show the validity of the proposed approach.
This paper addresses the turning issues of a multilink dolphin-like robot with a pair of mechanical flippers. The propulsion and maneuvering of the robot depend on the dorsoventral oscillations of the tail and the flapping movements of the artificial flippers. Taking into account both mechanical structure and functional characteristics of the dolphin-like robot, we present a practical approach to perform planar turning maneuvers as well as its dynamic analysis. The characteristic parameters affecting turning performance primarily include deflection angle, turning radius, and turning rate, which are discussed with a comparison between the simulation results and the experiments on circular motions. Preliminary tests in a robotics context partly demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed turning scheme.
This paper presents an adaptive fuzzy controller for the robust backstepping control of a class of uncertain nonlinear systems in pure-feedback form. The proposed approach incorporates the Nussbaum gain function (NGF) and the dynamic surface control (DSC) into the existing adaptive fuzzy control scheme. The major features of the proposed method are that: 1) the two problems, control directions and control singularity, are well solved by use of the NGF; 2) the problem of "explosion of complexity" inherent to the existing backstepping methods is eliminated by introducing the DSC technique; 3) the proposed control scheme has the adaptive mechanism with fewer adaptive laws, which results in less computation time burden. The performance of the proposed approach is demonstrated through a simulation example.
Using the grey system theory and the monitored data from the monitoring section of Yingsu, this paper models the groundwater level dynamic in the lower reaches of Tarim River affected by water delivery from upper reaches. The main conclusions are: (1) Discharging volume, running days for water delivery and daily discharging volume, which related with water delivery from the upper reaches of Tarim River, are three main factors that markedly control and affect the groundwater level. (2) The sensitivity of groundwater level changing respond to itself becomes more and more lower versus the distance apart from river center, and the affection from discharging volume and running days for water delivery to the change rate of groundwater level becomes more and more significant with increase of the distance apart from river center. Water delivery not only markedly controls and raises the groundwater level near river, but also affects the groundwater level as far as the range in the distance of 1050 m apart from river center.
Exploring mechanism of cognitive process is a valuable means of investigating artificial intelligence. But human being's perception of cognitive process is very limited so far, and related researches are required to be further deepened. This paper focuses on modeling cognitive process based on theory of granular computing(GrC). First, fundamental principle of GrC is used to analyze cognitive process and establish its model. Secondly, a tolerance relation on vector space("rv_space" for short) is defined by using a distance function dis, and a tolerance granular space model is established, in which the problem of approximate representation of unknown concept(abstraction of perceptive information) is discussed and analyzed. The analyses show that a given concept, sometimes, is difficult to be learned(i.e, difficult to be accurately represented), so appropriate granular world is required. The solution to this problem involves relationship and transformation between granular worlds. At last, such relationship and transformation are investigated, and many related properties and theorems are deduced, solving the facing problem to some extent. The theory and approach of representation of a concept in a granular world and transformation between different granular worlds are made to support cognitive process' granular model.
A designing method for Couner-propagation neural networks based on rough set theory is presented in this paper. Couner-propagation networks has been applied to various fields because of its topological construction closed to the mankind's brain, while rough set theory has a powerful capability for qualitative analysis. By combining those advantages of the two theories, we can construct a kind of neural networks with good understandability, simple computation and exact accuracy. In this paper, the key of the algorithm is that the input amples are simplified and classified by using Rough Set theory before trained.
A tolerance granular space model, written as a 4-tuple (OS, TR, FG, NTC), is presented in this paper. From the perspective of philosophy, The basic idea of the model is based on the human ability, that is, people can abstract or synthetize the knowledge and data relating with special tasks to different degrees or sizes granules, and accomplish the tasks with the helps of the granules and relations among them. From the perspective of technology and theory, TGrC consists of four parts: object set system, tolerance relation system, transformation function and nested tolerance covering system. The main features of the model focus on the definition of granules and the problem solving methods with the help of the hierachical and nested structure of tolerance granular spaces. In this paper, we mainly discuss the issues about the definition of tolerance granules, the relations among granules, the composition and decomposition of granules, the formulating of the models, model constructing methods, and the features and properties of tolerance granular models, etc. At last, we give an example to the principle and validity of the proposed model.
Cluster tools are fundamental equipments in over-8-inch wafer manufacturing. Due to the tools' unique physical structure and particular semiconductor manufacturing demands, the scheduling of cluster tools is more complex than normal Job-Shop problems. This paper proposes a scheduling algorithm for dual-armed cluster tools based on Heuristic Search. We mainly examine the scheduling technique under the most complex situation including residency constraints and multi-visit requirements. A periodic idea that every wafer enters into cluster tools in the same interval is proved still feasible under this situation. To find a conflict-free schedule under a fundamental period (FP) in short time, we define an evaluation function to select the most proper operation sequence from all the possibilities, and some feedback information from a conflict is used to prevent over pruning. Experiments under the most complex situations demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of this algorithm. Other experiments with looser constraints show its expansibility and adaptability.
This paper focuses on developing a robust neural network (NN) based sliding mode controller (NNSMC) to solve the trajectory tracking problem of a redundantly-actuated omnidirectional mobile manipulator. The SMC is designed to be robust to disturbances assuring the stability of the system. The NN is used to identify the unstructured uncertainty of system dynamics. The stability of the closed-loop system, the convergence of the NN weight-updating process, and the boundedness of the NN weight estimation errors are all strictly guaranteed. Through theories analysis, we know the controller is also capable of disturbance-rejection in the presence of time varying disturbances. Finally, simulation results demonstrate the proposed NNSMC approach can guarantee the whole system's convergence to the desired manifold with prescribed performance.
An adaptive neural network controller is proposed to deal with the task-space tracking problem of manipulators with kinematic and dynamic uncertainties. The orientation of manipulator is represented by the unit quaternion, which avoids singularities associated with three-parameter representation. By employing the adaptive Jacobian scheme, neural networks, and backstepping technique, the torque controller is obtained which is demonstrated to be stable by the Lyapunov approach. The adaptive updating laws for controller parameters are derived by the projection method, and the tracking error can be reduced as small as desired. The favorable features of the proposed controller lie in that: (1) the uncertainty in manipulator kinematics is taken into account; (2) the unit quaternion is used to represent the end-effector orientation; (3) the "linearity-in-parameters" assumption for the uncertain terms in dynamics of manipulators is no longer necessary; (4) effects of external disturbances are also considered in the controller design. Finally, the satisfactory performance of the proposed approach is illustrated by simulation results on a PUMA 560 robot.
Meta-synthesis system approach (MSA) is proposed to tackle with complex system problems by Chinese system scientists since the late 1980s. In this paper, we adopt a paradigm of WSR system approach studies, which emphasizes the synthesis of perspectives towards problems description and analysis, to explain the meta-synthesis support to problems solving. Base on the complexity analysis of WSR system approach studies, qualitative meta-synthesis and qualitative-quantitative meta-synthesis are proposed. Meanwhile we have developed a human-machine cooperated platform to enable domain experts and /or their knowledge to be the front, center of the research process, and to interact with data via friendly interfaces and system supports to maximize the power of domain experts' knowledge and capability in problem solving. Guided by this methodology, we demonstrate some of our work for surveying WSR studies status from different perspectives, such as effect, application domain, co-authorship network and citation network, and so on. Our work has shown that proposed methodology is practical and potential.
With the increasing requirements of fast response and privacy protection, how to detect network intrusions in a distributed architecture becomes a hot research area in the development or modern information security systems. However, it is a challenge to build such a system, given the difficulties brought by the mixed-attribute property of network connection data and the constraints on network communication. In this paper, we present a framework for distributed detection of network intrusions based on a parametric model. The parametric model can explicitly reflect the distributions of different intrusion types and handle the mixed-attribute data naturally. Based on the model, we can generate an accurate global intrusion detector with a very low cost of communication among the distributed detection sites, and no sharing of original network data is needed. Experimental results demonstrate the advantages of the proposed framework in the distributed intrusion detection application.
We consider the multi-valued discrete real training set that can not be separated by one multi-valued multi-threshold neuron. Such training set is defined as linearly nonseparable set in this paper. Our objective is to use multi-valued multi-threshold neural networks to learn nonseparable training sets. First we give the method that how to determine a training set is separable or nonseparable (i.e., the necessary and sufficient condition for linearly nonseparable is given). Then we analyze the structures within linearly nonseparable sets: not all the vectors in a linearly nonseparable set are responsible for nonseparability. So the vectors in such set can be partitioned to separable vectors and nonseparable vectors. Finally, we discuss the learning problems for a linearly nonseparable set. Such set can be learned by a three-layer feedforward neural network with one hidden layer.
A new neural network (NN) aided adaptive unscented Kalman filter (UKF) is presented for tracking high maneuvering target. In practice, the dynamic systems of many target tracking problems are usually nonlinear and incompletely observed, moreover, there may be large modeling errors when the target is maneuverable or some parameters of the system models are inaccurate or incorrect. The adaptive capability of filters is known to be increased by incorporating a neural network into the filtering procedure. On the other hand, some nonlinear filtering methods such as extended Kalman filter (EKF) have been used to train a NN with fast convergence speed by augmenting the state with unknown connecting weights. Tackling the natural coalescent between the filtering algorithm and the NN described above, first a more efficient learning algorithm based on unscented Kalman filter (UKF) is derived, which can give a more accurate estimate of the weights and possess faster convergence rate. We then extend the algorithm to form a new NN aided adaptive UKF algorithm and use it in maneuvering target tracking applications. The NN in this algorithm is used to approximate the uncertainty of system models and is trained online, together with the tar-get state estimation. Some simulations are also given to validate that the proposed method can give well state estimation of a highly maneuvering target.
This paper aims at developing near optimal traffic signal control for multi-intersection in city. Fuzzy control is widely used in traffic signal control. For improving fuzzy control's adaptability in fluctuant states, a controller combined with neuro-fuzzy system and adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) is designed. This controller can be used for cooperative control of multi-intersection. The adaptive dynamic programming gives reinforcement for good neuro-fuzzy system behavior and punishment for poor behavior. The neuro-fuzzy system adjusts its parameters according to the reinforcement and punishment Then, those actions leading to better results tend to be chosen preferentially in the future. Comparing with traditional ADP, this controller uses neuro-fuzzy system as the action network. The neuro-fuzzy system offers some existing knowledge and reduces the randomness of traditional ADP. In this paper, the objective of the controller is to minimize the average vehicular delay. The controller can be trained to adapt fluctuant traffic states by real-time traffic data, and achieves a near optimal control result in a long run. Simulation results show that the trained controller achieves shorter average vehicular delay than the controller with initial membership function.
Increasing dependence on car-based travel has led to the daily occurrence of freeway congestions around the world. In order to improve the worse and worse traffic congestion situation and solve the problems brought with it, a new kind of effective, fast, and robust method should be presented. Ramp metering has been developed as a traffic management strategy to alleviate congestion on freeways. But, it doesn't work well in uncertainty situations. In this paper, in order to solve the problems in uncertainty conditions, an on-tine learning control method based on the fundamental principle of reinforcement learning is proposed. The method is ADP (adaptive dynamic programming) and in order to expedite the learning rate, the concept about eligibility traces is introduced here. Then eligibility trace and ADP is combined to present a new kind of traffic responsive control method. The new method is called action-dependent heuristic dynamic programming based on eligibility traces (ADRDP (lambda)). ADHDP (lambda) is an approximate optimal ramp metering method. Simulation studies on a hypothetical freeway indicate good control performance of the proposed real-time traffic controller.
The trajectory tracking control problem of a tracked vehicle with slipping is considered in this paper. The slipping effects are analyzed and modeled as three time-varying parameters, which can be estimated simultaneously with robot's pose using nonlinear estimators such as unscented Kalman filter. Dynamic feedback linearization integrated with a globally exponential stabilizing state feedback is applied to achieve the tracking control objective. Simulation results are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of proposed method.
Pulse-coupled neuron networks (PCNN) can be efficiently applied to image segmentation. However, the performance of segmentation depends on the suitable PCNN parameters, which are obtained by manual experiment, and the effect of the segmentation needs to be improved for images with noise. In this paper, dynamic mechanism based PCNN(DMPCNN) is brought forward to simulate the integrate-and-fire mechanism, and it is applied to segment images with noise effectively. Parameter selection is based on dynamic mechanism. Experimental results for image segmentation show its validity and robustness.
The complex environment requires mobile robots to possess high capability of obstacle negotiation. Cooperative negotiation is proposed to endow the AMOEBA-I robot with capability of obstacle negotiation and to reinforce the adaptability of the robot in unstructured environment. A mathematical model is established. The relationship between the height that the robot can overcome and angle with gravity offset's variation is analyzed theoretically. The maximum heights that conventional negotiation method can reach and cooperative negotiation method can reach are compared. Control strategy of autonomous negotiation is presented. The emotion model is established and the robot's control strategy is fine-tuned according to the change of emotion. Experimental results prove the validity of the cooperative negotiation method and autonomous control strategy.
Robots are efficient and economic for in-pipe inspection tasks. In this paper, we deal with versatility and multifunction of in-pipe inspection robots. A versatile platform equipped with one driving motor is the main body of Multifunctional Mobile Unit (MMU) that performs inspection tasks. We have developed three kinds of MMU by fixing different assemblies on the proposed versatile platform. MMU1 is an adaptive mobile mechanism that changes its working mode autonomously and gets over the obstacle without any extra motor's help, in the case that the pipe diameter changes. MMU2 is a mechanism that has both driving ability and detecting function; MMU3 is equipped with assemblies that integrate the wheel and propeller function together, thus, MMU3 is able to propel both in dry pipe and watery pipe. These MMUs are all constructed from a same platform, which makes little increase of the cost but realizes of more kinds of robots. Several basic experiments have been conducted to confirm the effectiveness and mobility of the MMUs.
This paper proposes a hunting control approach for multiple mobile robots with local sensing. Predator Robot (PR) requires the sensing information and makes decision without communication with other PRs. The cooperation may emerge by local interactions among the robots. The invader (IR) is given the intelligent ability to escape. Experiments results show the validity of the proposed approach.
ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor) tractor is an in-cask remote handling equipment, and its tilting and lifting mechanism is very important for the tractor to operate 45t plug in front of the ports of the Hot Cell and the VV(Vacuum Vessel) successfully. This paper was aimed at proposing a tilting and lifting mechanism to accurately grasp and operate the heavy-load plug in the ITER cask. The 3D virtual prototype of mechanism is presented and it is simplified as 7-linkage plane structure to reduce the complexity of analysis. The kinematics and dynamics characteristics of this mechanism were studied. To realize bidirectional solution of the movement, the motion parameters relationship between input and output was set up by the kinematics models. Based on Lagrange equation, the driving force of every joint for hydraulic cylinders was calculated. The results of dynamics simulation validated the correctness of caculation. The excellent hydraulic loop model was also built to guarantee the motion stability of system. All the above analytical models can provide intelligent control strategies for hydraulic cylinders of the mechanism to achieve the stable grasping and operation of heavy-load plug.
A novel compound mobile robot named Jaguar is introduced, which is developed by our laboratory. Its mechanism and system component are presented, with the method of motion control as an emphasis. Modular design allows us to add and to change parts easily at the structural, hardware and software levels. To control different components of the robot, the embedded control system is used and the remote control makes the robot work practice. In order to overcome problems in motion control for robot Jaguar and parameter global tuning for PED controllers, fuzzy controllers are designed, and an angular velocity and course angle algorithm based on deflection angle of caster wheel and compass angle is presented. Experiments on the robot prove the effectiveness of the controller, which improves the operation, system adaptability and motion stability.
Bovine insulin molecular aggregates, a nano-scale bio-entity, has been manipulated using P-NUVO (Programmable nanomanipulation using vibration-mode operation AFM) method. This method uses the amplitude of an AFM cantilever's vibration as real-time feedback information to detect the boundary of the nano-entities under manipulation. This amplitude signal changes as a function of the distance between the probe-tip and a nano-entity due to their inter-molecular force interactions. The AFM tip's manipulating path could also be planned according to the manipulation task. Different configuration of bio-nano-entities, i.e., sphere and rod configurations were manipulated. Due to the difficulties of the sample preparation process, the real-time feedback information did not work as well as for other nano-entities such as carbon nanotubes.
This paper focuses on the reconfiguration optimization of the swarm configurations assembled by the reconfigurable wheel-manipulator robots, which can independently perform the actions of locomotion and manipulation. The aim of reconfiguration is to generate better configurations while adapting to the environment. The reconfiguration of swarm configurations can be classified into the configuration assembly and configuration transformation. The Module State Vector and Configuration State Matrix are applied to optimization analysis in order to acquire the relation of the state transformation. The algorithms are presented for assembling optimally the configuration of individual modules and reconfiguring optimally the configuration of the robots. Their validity is evaluated and demonstrated through the numerical simulations.
By analyzing the operation behavior of an A.C. excited variable-speed constant-frequency (VSCF) wind-power generator, the field-oriented vector control technique and and the internal model controller (IMC) are transplanted into the voltage control of DFIG. The IMC were transplanted into the cutting-in control of the doubly-fed induction generator wit no-load and a novel cutting-in control strategy was obtained. The strategy can realize cutting-in without accurate parameters of doubly-fed induction generator(DFIG) and the controller can be designed without accurate DFIG model. A dynamic model of variable pitch and variable speed wind turbine was developed. This model can be used simulate wind turbine and design pitch and toque controller. The research work presented in this paper is aimed to reduce pitch actuator fatigue and smooth output power above-rated power operating condition. To cope with the nonlinear characteristics of wind turbine and reduce the pitch actuator fatigue, a new control strategy for variable pitch variable speed wind turbine is proposed. In the proposed method a variable gains PD controller based on fuzzy control theory is used. The simulation results show that the controllers ensure very good robustness and adaptability under modeling uncertainty and external disturbance, and produce good dynamic performance.
Estimating the number of hidden neurons required for the implementation of an arbitrary function is a fundamental problem of neural networks. This paper presents the lower bound on the number of hidden neurons in three-layer multi-valued multi-threshold neural networks for implementation of an arbitrary q-valued function defined on a set of N-point with n-dimension (N <= q(n)). This result can be applied to design constructive learning algorithms with training set of N numbers. For the special case of N=q(n), we obtain the lower bound on the number of hidden neurons for implementation of all the q-valued functions. Our results are tighter than the results that have been existed.
Application Research of Intelligent Algorithm in Electric-driven Flight Simulation Turntable is discussed in this paper. Fuzzy control is used to solve the problem of fast tracking and overshoot since its essence belongs to PD control. In order to improve the performance of system in low speed, a method named variance-gain adaptive algorithm is introduced in this paper. It defines the amplifier gain as a function whose independent variable is speed, so the amplifier gain can automatically be adjusted with the change of speed. When the turntable runs at low speed, it has a big amplifier gain, a good rigidity and high tracking accuracy. When the turntable runs at high speed, the method can control the amplifier gain and ensure the system dynamic performance. Design and implementation of these algorithms is introduced in detail. Experiment results show that the Flight Simulation Turntable has achieved the required performance through using fuzzy control algorithm and variance-gain adaptive algorithm.
Fuzzy controller was used to resolve the problem of fast tracking and overshoot in electric-driven simulation turntable, for its essence belongs to PD control. In this system, the control rules of fuzzy controller were established according to the step dynamic response process, for the speed loop of this system was predigested to be second-orders system. The describing function method was adopted to analyze the stability of the fuzzy control system. It gave the information of stability of system intuitively. The fuzzy controller had been applied in this system successfully. The simulation turntable had no overshooting nearly when its step input signal was close to 90 degrees. Experimental results show the implementation method of fuzzy controller is not only simple but also effectual in engineering practice. It also provides an approach of design of fuzzy controller for motion control system.
With the development of Earth Observation technology, huge amounts of remote sensing satellite data have been collected by several aerospace institutions such as NASA, SPOT IMAGE, ESA etc. and the satellite data collection will speed up rapidly as time goes by. It is a huge challenge for Remote Sensing domain to convert such huge amounts of satellite data to user with desired information and knowledge with easy way. Recent progresses in computer, knowledge engineer and artificial intelligence technologies make creation of a better system possible. We build a SWS (Semantic Web Services) Based on Remote Sensing Information and Knowledge Sharing System to resolve the problems mentioned above. In this paper, the shortcomings of the current data and information system are discussed and the urgency of building new generation of remote sensing information and knowledge sharing system is proposed. Then Semantic Web Services Based on framework and functions for Information and Knowledge Sharing is given. At last, the development state of the system and conclusion are given.
In location based services (LBS), users with location-aware mobile devices can query their surroundings anywhere and at any time. While this ubiquitous computing paradigm brings great convenience to information access, it raises a concern about potential intrusion on users' location privacy, which has hampered the widespread use of LBS. In this paper, we present iPDA, a client-based framework to facilitate privacy-preserving Location-based data access in mobile environments. The main idea is to reduce the resolution of user location based on location cloaking and transform a,location-based query to a region-based query. We develop an optimal location cloaking technique that is immune to mobility analysis attack. Extensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithms.
This paper describes our work on the studies of the locomotion of a 3D snake-like robot, which has been developed by our laboratory for special usage. In this paper, we first describe the mechanical design of the robot and its control system, then we give the basic formulas for the robot's 2D and 3D locomotion, which are based on Serpenoid Curve. While having realized 2D locomotion of serpentine and concertina, many 3D motion gaits were obtained and the 3D motions of the snake-like robot were generated by changing the parameters of the 3D locomotion formula. Moreover, the performance variances under different control form-Was were observed for each gait. These results help to better control the snake-like robots' locomotion.
The wind turbine operating area can be divided into several regions, depending on wind speed. The control objectives are different for each operating region. This paper mainly deals with the control of a variable speed pitch regulated wind turbine in the full load operating area. The research work presented in this paper is aimed to reduce pitch actuator fatigue and smooth output power above-rated power operating condition. To cope with the nonlinear characteristics of wind turbine, a new control strategy for variable speed pitch-regulated wind turbine is proposed. In the proposed method a variable pins PD controller based on fuzzy control theory is used. A comparison with purposed strategies and PI controllers is performed. Simulation result show that the proposed approach results in better power regulation and less pitch action. The proposed strategy is easy to realize and has stronger robustness.
In this paper, we discuss the aggregation of a group of autonomous agents related to a convex target set. The convergence of the whole agent group, consisting of leaders (informed agents) and followers, to a desired region is investigated with switching interconnection topologies described by the connectivity on [t, infinity) for any time t. Set stability analysis is given with help of graph theory and non-smooth analysis, and moreover, sufficient conditions to achieve the coordination are proposed for some important cases. The results show that simple local rules can make the networked agents with first-order nonlinear individual dynamics converge to the target set.
A novel particle swarm optimization algorithm, called APSO_RW is presented. Random inertia weight improves its global optimization performance and an adaptive reinitialize mechanism is used when the global best particle is detected to be trapped. The new algorithm is tested on a set of benchmark functions and experimental results show its efficiency. APSO_RW is later applied in UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) path planning.
In this paper, three improved Extreme Learning Machines (ELMs) are proposed to approximating periodic function. According to Fourier series expansion theory, the hidden neurons activation functions in the improved ELM are a class of sine and cosine functions. In addition, the improved ELM analytically determines the output weights of neural networks. In theory, the new algorithm tends to provide the best approximation performance at extremely fast learning speed. The proposed ELMs have better approximation accuracies and faster convergence rate than traditional ELM and gradient-based learning algorithms. Finally, experimental results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed ELMs.
A spectral analysis pipeline of LAMOST (Large sky Area Multi-Object fiber Spectroscopic Telescope), which produces archived spectral type data, is introduced. By studying observational and theoretical stellar spectra, spectral features within medium resolution are discussed, those lines and bands with high sensitivity to stellar atmospheric parameters, viz. effective temperature (Teff), surface gravity (logg) and metallicity ([Fe/H]), were selected. According to the research, selected features were put into different objective algorithms to extract parameters. The application of three algorithms to SDSS/SEGUE spectra, namely radial basis function neural network (RBFN), back propagation neural network (BPN) and non-parameter regression (NPR), shows intrinsic statistical consistency. Based on the above research, a stellar atmospheric parameter pipeline for LAMOST is designed.
With the large-scale multicolor photometry and fiber-based spectroscopy projects carried out, millions of uniform samples are available to the astronomers'. Based oil this situation, we have developed all automatic system to estimate photometric redshifts for both galaxies and quasars. In this paper we give an exhaustive introduction of the system. We first describe a series of methods integrated in this system, such as template fitting, color-magnitude- redshift; relation, polynomial regression, support vector machines and kernel regression. The merits and demerits of these approaches have been indicated. Therefore, users call choose some suitable algorithm to estimate photometric redshifts according to data characteristics and science requirements. Then, we present. a case study to illustrate how the system works. In order to build a more robust system of increasing the accuracy and speed of photometric redshift, estimation, we pay special attention to algorithm choice and data preparation. From the user's viewpoint, an easy used interface will be provided. Finally, we point out the promising techniques of measuring photometric redshifts and the application prospects of this system. In the future, the system will become an essential tool For automatedly determining photometric redshifts in the study of the large-scale structure of the Universe and the formation and evolution of galaxies.
The Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) is all ambitious photometry and spectra project, providing huge and abundant samples for photometric redshift estimation. We employ polynomial regression to estimate photometric redshifts using 330,000 galaxies with known spectroscopic redshifts from SDSS Release Four spectroscopic catalog, and compare three polynomial regression methods, i.e. linear regression, quadratic regression and cubic regression with different samples. This technique gives absolute convergence in a finite number of steps, represents better fit with fewer coefficients and yields the result as a mathematical expression. This method is much easier to use and understand than other empirical methods for astronomers. Our result indicates that equally or more powerful accuracy is provided, moreover, the best r.m.s. dispersion of this approach is 0.0256. In addition, the comparison between our results with other works is addressed.
Nowadays as Internet enables to find, publish and then share information among unfamiliar people and then enable virtual community emerges, it is natural to detect the consensus or interests from those on-line opinions or surveys. especially for those business people to acquire feedback and get senses which are beneficial for new prototypes design and products improvements. In this paper, several ways to approach community's consensus and interest are addressed. Those ways mainly denote three kind of technologies, augmented information support (AIS), CorMap and Mew, which mainly support different kinds of work during an unstructured problem solving process where creative ideas are barely required.
In this paper, several sufficient conditions are obtained to guarantee that the n-dimensional cellular neural network can have even (<= 2(n)) memory patterns. In addition, the estimations of attractive domain of such stable memory patterns are obtained. These conditions, which can be directly derived from the parameters of the neural networks, are easily verified. A new design procedure for cellular neural networks is developed based on stability theory (rather than the well-known perceptron training algorithm), and the convergence in the new design procedure is guaranteed by the obtained local stability theorems. Finally, the validity and performance of the obtained results are illustrated by two examples. (C) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In applications such as character recognition, some classes are heavily overlapped but are not necessarily to be separated. For classification of such overlapping classes, either discriminating between them or merging them into a metaclass does not satisfy. Merging the overlapping classes into a metaclass implies that with in- metaclass substitution is considered as correct classification. For such classification problems, I propose a partial discriminative training (PDT) scheme for neural networks, in which, a training pattern of an overlapping class is used as a positive sample of its labeled class, and neither positive nor negative sample for its allied classes (classes overlapping with the labeled class). In experiments of handwritten letter recognition using neural networks and support vector machines, the PDT scheme mostly outperforms crosstraining (a scheme for multi-labeled classification), ordinary discriminative training and metaclass classification.
With various algorithms successfully applied for measuring photometric redshifts of galaxies, we utilize support vector machines (SVMs), an empirical training-set method, to estimate photometric redshifts of quasars by means of five-band photometry data from Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). Using a sample of 67,491 quasars from SDSS Data Release Five (SDSS DR5), we explore the influence of model parameters of SVMs on the accuracy of photometric redshifts of quasars. SVMs are trained on two thirds of sample, and tested on the rest sample. The variance between the photometric and spectroscopic redshifts is 0.119, and 48.94%, 70.71% and 78.12% of the objects are within Delta z<0.1, 0.2 and 0.3, respectively. Compared to the color-redshift-relation (CZR), SVMs show their superiority.
Selecting nonrepeat photometric objects (41,359 stars and 43,010 quasars) from the Second Data Release of the sloan digital sky survey (SDSS), we apply Radial Basis Function (RBF) network and Random Forest to separate quasars from stars. RBF network implements a normalized Gaussian radial basis function network. It uses the k-means clustering algorithm to provide the basis functions and learns a linear regression (numeric class problems) on top of that. Random forests are a combination of tree predictors such that each tree depends on the values of a random vector sampled independently and with the same distribution for all trees in the forest. The experimental results show that the accuracy of RBF network and Random Forest adds tip to 93.71% and 96.98%, respectively. Apparently these two methods are applicable and effective to classify quasars from stars. They may also be used to solve other classification problems faced in astronomy and Virtual Observatory.
We investigate two training-set methods: support vector machines (SVMs) and Kernel Regression (KR) for photometric redshift estimation with the data from the databases of Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 5 and Two Micron All Sky Survey. We probe the performances of SVMs and KR for different input patterns. Our experiments show that with more parameters considered, the accuracy does not always increase, and only when appropriate parameters are chosen, the accuracy can improve. For different approaches, the best input pattern is different. With different parameters as input, the optimal bandwidth is dissimilar for KR. The rms errors of photometric redshifts based on SVM and KR methods are less than 0.03 and 0.02, respectively. Strengths and weaknesses of the two approaches are summarized. Compared to other methods of estimating photometric redshifts, they show their superiorities, especially KR, in terms of accuracy.
The Radial Basis Function (RBF) neural networks method is introduced and applied to the smoothed monthly mean sunspot number's (SMMSN) prediction for cycle 23 in this paper. Prediction methods are made respectively for predicting of SMMSNs for the next eight months by training the neural networks with different sets of data. A comparison of the SMMSN's predictions one to eight months in advance with the derived ones from the observational data for absolutely the most part of cycle 23 shows that this RBF neural networks method should be an applicable one for the mid-term solar activity forecast. A brief discussion give in the last section of this paper points out: (1) that the error of the prediction increases along with the time in advance, while for the prediction with an advanced time of <= 4 months the error can be controlled under 4. 8 and 38 %, and for 89 % of this kind of prediction the relative error is <= 15 %. (2) that size of the data set used for the training of the RBF neural networks would give an effect to the predicting ability of the prediction model.
A multilayered perceptrons' neural network technique has been applied in the particle identification at BESIII. The networks are trained in each sub-detector level. The NN output of sub-detectors can be sent to a sequential network or be constructed as PDFs for a likelihood. Good muon-ID, electron-ID and hadron-ID are obtained from the networks by using the simulated Monte Carlo samples.
Recently, researchers have extensively applied quadratic programming into classification, known as V. Vapnik's Support Vector Machine, as well as various applications. However, using optimization techniques to deal with data separation and data analysis goes back to more than forty years ago. Since 1998, the authors and their colleagues extended such a research idea into classification via multiple criteria linear programming (MCLP) and multiple criteria quadratic programming (MQLP). The purpose of the paper is to share our research results and promote the research interests in the community of computational sciences. These methods are different from statistics, decision tree induction, and neural networks. In this paper, starting from the basics of Multiple Criteria Linear Programming (MCLP), we further discuss penalized MCLP Multiple Criteria Quadratic Programming (MCQP), Multiple Criteria Fuzzy Linear Programming, Multi-Group Multiple Criteria Mathematical Programming, as well as regression method by Multiple Criteria Linear Programming. A brief summary of applications of Multiple Criteria Mathematical Programming is also provided.
A hierarchical sliding mode control approach is proposed for a class of SIMO under-actuated systems. This class of tinder-actuated systems is made up of several Subsystems. Based on this physical structure, the hierarchical structure of the sliding surfaces is designed as follows. At first, the sliding surface of every subsystem is defined. Then the sliding surface of one subsystem is defined as the first layer sliding surface. The first layer sliding surface is used to construct the second layer sliding surface with the sliding surface of another subsystem. This process continues till the sliding surfaces of the entire subsystems are included. According to the hierarchical structure, the total control law is deduced by the Lyapunov theorem. In theory, the asymptotic stability of the entire system of sliding surfaces is proven and the parameter boundaries of the subsystem sliding surfaces are given. Simulation results show the feasibility of this control method through two typical SIMO under-actuated systems.
Most of the software estimates should be performed at the beginning of the life cycle, when we do not yet know the problem we are going to solve. Effort estimation is used to predict how many hours of work and how many workers are needed to develop a project. The effort invested in a software project is probably one of the most important and most analyzed variables in recent years in the process of project management. Estimating the effort with a high grade of reliability is a problem which has not yet been solved and even the project manager has to deal with it since the beginning. Fuzzy systems try to emulate cognitive processes of the brain with a rule base. The basic concept is inspired by the human processes where the decisional criteria are not clear cut, but blurred and it is difficult to find objective to make the decisions more precise and clear Fuzzy decision systems are based on fuzzy logic that tries to reproduce the fuzzy human reasoning. The aim of this survey is to analyze the use of Fuzzy logic in the existing models and to provide in depth review of software and project estimation techniques existing in industry and literature, its strengths and weaknesses.
A Meta-Synthesis methodology based framework model was provided in this article to support the group decision-making process including steps of problem discussion process and consensus process. This model is composed of dual-scaling method based visualized group argumentation environment to support diverging form of thought and fuzzy preference relation based visualized consensus assessment environment. This study will provide a suitable environmental support to deeply analyze and effectively enhance the consensus during complicated problem solving procedures.
In a personalized recommender system of a ubiquitous computing environment, the decision on recommendation depends on some uncertain factors. Fuzzy system has an ability of solving the reasoning uncertainty, and gets widely used in the context awareness based personalized recommender system. In this paper, we present a fuzzy reasoning model based on the Fuzzy Petri Net. The model considers the requirements of task fulfillment, user's preferences and QoS of the system. With difference from those existing recommender systems, we focus on the formalized modeling of fuzzy reasoning of the personalized recommendation. Through formalization of fuzzy reasoning, we propose an approach to construct a rule-based reasoning system. The feasibility of the proposed approach is validated by an example of the personalized recommender engine.
Grey System theory is a multidisciplinary theory dealing with those systems for which we lack information, which uses a black-grey-white color spectrum to describe a complex system whose characteristics are only partially known or known with uncertainty. From the point of view of grey system theory, the dynamic of groundwater level in the lower reaches of Tarim River is typical grey system, which maybe provides us one of methods to approach the problem. As an attempt, through demonstration at Yingsu section, the paper has comparatively studied the grey forecasting models to predict the groundwater level in the lower reaches of Tarim River. The conclusions are: (1) The grey forecasting models, which include equal and unequal time lag GM (1, 1) model, are applicable models to predict the groundwater level in lower reaches of Tarim River. The accuracy test parameters, P and C for equal and unequal time lag GM (1, 1) model both achieved the desired impact for prediction. (2) The forecasted depth of groundwater for each well by unequal time lag GM (1, 1) model is somewhat less than that by equal time lag GM (1,1) model. If the average of forecasted depth of groundwater by the two kind models is regarded as the predicted result, the depth of groundwater of monitoring well C4, C5 and C6 in 2007 will be 4.1696 m, 4.317 m and 4.4839 m respectively, and that in 2008 will be 4.0612 m, 4.2308 m and 4.3604 m respectively.
This paper presents an improved speed sensorless vector control method for general-purpose induction motors (IMs). The proposed method is based on the d-q axis dynamic model of the induction motor and an improved closed-loop flux observer, which can achieve precise rotor and stator flux estimation over a wide speed range. And then, a rotor-speed-estimation method, based on fuzzy control theory, is discussed and deduced. Simulation results are compared between estimated speed got from fuzzy controller and common PI controller. Finally, a series of experimental research are conducted and the results verify the scheme above is valid and the estimated speed trucks the actual speed well in both rated speed region and field weakening region. The proposed algorithm has simpler control algorithms and little computational burden, both the flux observation and speed estimation can achieve perfect effect in both steady-state operating condition as well as In transient operation.
In the high-precision servo system, not only request quickness but also response characteristics without overshoot, usually request strong robot for position loop. The traditional control system design usually is finished under the linear condition which neglects some factors. It makes the more differences between designed model and actual system, so the general PID adjuster and the single basic fuzzy control are different to meet the need. The paper designs a complex fuzzy controller based on double structure and variable coefficient, at the same time adopts Cooperative Processing module with fuzzy reasoning function. which make the system fuzzy reasoning speed improved and realize the online reasoning. So the system capability is improved, the experiment proved the system has the good capability.
A back propagation artificial neural network was used to extract permafrost information in Huzhong National Nature Reserve, China. 400 field sites of permafrost information were investigated as training sites for the network and accuracy test for the classification results. Different combinations of input sources were used as training layers for the network, which included land cover, equivalent latitude, aspect, and radar image. Results of permafrost classification suggest that the neural network is available in the study area. The best combination to extract permafrost information includes land cover, equivalent latitude and radar image. But aspect may have little use in classifications of permafrost in the area.
The ability of cognition and recognition for complex environment is very important for a real autonomous robot. A Corridor-Scene-Classifier based on spiking neural networks (SNN) for mobile robot is designed to help the mobile robot to locate correctly. In the SNN classifier, the integrate-and-fire model (IAF) spiking neuron model is used and there is lateral inhibiting in the output layer The Winner-Take-All rule is used to modify the connecting weights between the hidden layer and the outputting layer The experimental results show that the Corridor-Scene-Classifier is effective and it also has strong robustness.
In this study, we propose a least squares bilateral-weighted fuzzy support vector machine(LS-BFSVM) method to evaluate the credit risk problem. The method can not only reduce the computational complexity by considering equality constraints instead of inequalities for the classification problem with a formulation in least squares sense, but also increase the training algorithm's generalization ability by treating each training sample as being both a possible good and bad customer and considering bilateral-weighted classification errors. For illustration purpose, a real-world credit risk assessment dataset is used to test the effectiveness of the LS-BFSVM method.
An improved swarm intelligence algorithm, named SA-CGA, is introduced briefly in the paper. The algorithm, which is a chaos-genetic hybrid algorithm with a new random number generator using the mixed congruential method, searches goal value using genetic algorithm in global space when population diversity is bigger than given value, while resolves optimal value utilizing chaos algorithm as population diversity decreases to some threshold automatically. The performance of the algorithms is analyzed and compared with other methods. The result shows its convergence precision is high and its convergence velocity is fast.
This paper is concerned with multi-robot hunting in dynamic environments. A BCSLA approach is proposed to allow mobile robots to capture an intelligent evader. During the process of hunting, four states including dispersion-random-search, surrounding, catch and prediction are employed. In order to ensure each robot appropriate movement in each state, a series of strategies are developed in this paper. The dispersion-search strategy enables the robots to find the evader effectively. The leader-adjusting strategy aims to improve the hunting robots' response to environmental changes and the outflank strategy is proposed for the hunting robots to force the evader to enter a besieging circle. The catch strategy is designed for shrinking the besieging circle to catch the evader. The predict strategy allows the robots to predict the evader's position when they lose the tracking information about the evader. A novel collision-free motion strategy is also presented in this paper, which is called the direction-optimization strategy. To test the effect of cooperative hunting, the target to be captured owns a safety-motion strategy, which helps it to escape being captured. The computer simulations support the rationality of the approach.
The paper addresses a novel parameter design method for a locomotion controller based on the Central Pattern Generator (CPG) to generate diverse locomotion behaviors for link-based fish robots. Since almost; all mathematical models of the CPG represented by differential equations have many parameters, it is very intractable to design and modulate these quantities. To partly tackle this problem, an iterative technique centered parameter determination method is formulated; into which the relationship between fish-inspired body wave and the multi-link mechanical structure is fused. The formed algorithm is simple; easy to implement and suitable for engineering application. A simulation example of a three-link robotic fish is further illustrated. The results show the effectiveness of the approach which can be extended to control biomimetic robotic fish and other multi-link robots. Moreover, many related CPG mathematical models can be dealt with by the proposed method.
This paper focuses on a three-dimensional (3D) dynamic model for a self-propelled, multilink dolphin-like robot to predict the dynamic behaviors of the bio-inspired artificial dolphin system within the framework of multibody dynamics. The propulsive structure involves a multilink tail and all oscillating fluke cooperatively achieving dorsoventral oscillations, as well as a pair of mechanical flippers performing flapping movements, which can actually be simplified as an open-chain, tree-like multibody with a mobile base. The Schiehlen method is further utilized to formulate the equations of the motion on the basis of a well-integrated kinematic and dynamic analysis of propulsive elements. A rough comparison between simulations and experiments on forward swimming and combined motions verifies the effectiveness of the formed model and corresponding locomotion control method.
This paper proposes an observation-based control approach with only local sensing for controlling a team of nonholonomic mobile robots to keel) predetermined geometric shapes. Based on the data front the encoders and CCD cameras, each follower keeps formation by observing its leader. Considering that the error accumulation of the encoders, only several recently sampling information are employed and a, multistep recursive prediction strategy is introduced. The local cooperation emerge by observation is without the need of global knowledge, especially suitable for the case of communication failure. The experiments show the validity of the proposed approach.
This paper presents a new model for the control of multivariable output probability density function (PDF). Firstly, a Multi-Layer Perceptron (MLP) neural network is adopted to approximate the static output PDF of the MIMO systems. Nonlinear principal component analysis (NLPCA) is then used to reduce the order of the obtained static neural network model and the dynamics of the system is considered based on the lower-order model. After this, an integrated Solution is provided to set Lip the system with lower-order dynamics for the purpose of stochastic distribution control. The controller design is then presented in detail. Finally, a simulation example is given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the method and encouraging results have been obtained.
Community ecologists and vegetation scientists in grassland research have a strong interest in quantifying biotic communities in detail. However, a satisfactory classification with fine biotic details has been challenged by the coarse resolutions of Landsat images, although they are easily accessible. In this paper, a hybrid fuzzy classifier (HFC) for vegetation classification with Landsat ETM+ imagery on the typical grassland in Xilinhe River Basin, Inner Mongolia, China has been developed. Three vegetation classification systems were created from different aspects: the botanical system (Bio-classes, also as the final mapping units for vegetation cover), the combined botanical and spectral system (Bio-S classes), and the spectral system (Spec-classes). The HFC designed a fuzzy logic to measure the similarity between Spec-classes, extracted by the unsupervised classification, and Bio-S classes, built from the field samples, when considering the spectral variations of samples within the same Bio-class. Then, Bio-S classes, which served as a bridge for assigning Spec-classes to the target Bio-classes, were merged to restore Bio-classes for the final mapping. To assess the classification accuracy, the HFC was compared with a conventional supervised classification (CSC). The overall result of the HFC was much better than that of the CSC, with an accuracy percentage of 80.2% as compared to 69.0% for the CSC.
Detecting phase transitions in neural networks (determined or random) presents a challenging subject for phase transitions play a key role in human brain activity. In this paper, we detect numerically phase transitions in two types of random neural network(RNN) under proper parameters..
Scarce land resources and growing population are compelling issues for intensively developing coastal zones in China. During the past 30 years, many coastal tidelands have been enclosed for cultivation and development. To plan and implement large-scale reclamation programs in coastal zones, timely and reliable information concerning the nature, extent and physicochemical characteristics of the coastal saline soils land is essential. Because extracting useful information from optical remote sensing imagery is often hampered by the presence of clouds and wet weather, in this study we used multitemporal European remote sensing satellite (ERS)-2 PRI synthetic aperture radar (SAR) images only for coastal land use mapping. The SAR multitemporal backscattering characteristics of main land use categories were first investigated after pseudocolor synthesizing of three temporal SAR images, extracting dikes and partitioning the study area into six subzones according to the reclamation years. Next, an iterative self-organizing data analysis (ISODATA) unsupervised classifier and a BP neural network classifier were used for the land use classification in different subzones, achieving an overall classification accuracy of 77.34% and a kappa coefficient of 0.74. In this study, we demonstrated that SAR imagery, instead of or complementary to optical satellite data, has great potential for land use mapping or resource investigations in coastal zones under rapid development.
The artificial neural network technique was applied to predict the mechanical and wear properties of short fiber reinforced polyamide (PA) composites. Two experimental databases were used to train the neural network: one consisted of 101 independent fretting wear tests of PA 4.6 composites; the other one was from a commercial company and included 93 pairs of independent Izod impact, tension and bending tests of PA 6.6 composites. The predicted property profiles as a function of short fiber content or testing conditions proved a remarkable capability of well-optimized neural networks for modeling concern. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The design of a hybrid multi-agent architecture is proposed for multirobot systems. Analysis of the architecture shows that it is suitable for multirobot systems dealing with changing environments. Meanwhile, it is capable of controlling a group of robots to accomplish multiple tasks simultaneously. Two associated issues about the architecture are cooperation between robots and intelligent decision making. Ability vector, cost function and reward function are used as criteria to describe and solve the role assignment problem in multirobot cooperation. A solution of information fusion based on RBF neural networks is applied to solve the reality problem in decision making of multirobot systems. And an experiment about robot soccer shooting is designed. The experimental results verify that the method can improve the whole decision system in accuracy.
To solve the problem of conventional input-output space partitioning, a new learning algorithm for creating self-organizing fuzzy neural networks (SOFNN) is proposed, which automates structure and parameter identification simultaneously based on input-target samples. First, a self-organizing clustering approach is used to establish the structure of the network and obtain the initial values of its parameters, then a supervised learning method to optimize these parameters. Two specific implementations of the algorithm, including function approximation and forecast modeling of the wastewater treatment system, are developed, comprehensive comparisons are made with other approaches in both of the examples. Simulation studies demonstrate the presented algorithm is superior in terms of compact structure and learning efficiency. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Spiking neural networks (SNNs), as the third generation of artificial neural networks, have unique advantages and are good candidates for robot controllers. A behavior controller based on a spiking neural network is designed for mobile robots to avoid obstacles using ultrasonic sensory signals. Detailed structure and implementation of the controller are discussed. In the controller the integrated-and-firing model is used and the SNN is trained by the Hebbian learning algorithm. Under the framework of SNNs, fewer neurons are employed in the controller than those of the classical neural networks (NNs). Experimental results show that the proposed controller is effective and is easy to implement. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A robot scanning system consisting of a portable laser 3-D scanner and an industrial robot is demonstrated. In this system, the scanner is precalibrated by the traditional nonlinear two-step approach. In addition, by using a criterion sphere as the calibration object, a new robot tool center point (TCP) calibration approach is proposed for calibrating the relation between the precalibrated laser 3-D scanner and the robot. In this approach, two different translational motions of the robot are first made to determine the rotation part, and then at least three different rotational motions are made to determine the translation part. During the process, the extrinsic camera parameters are not recalibrated for each robot motion, so the calibration errors brought by camera calibration can be decreased. Moreover, the calibration error due to robot positioning error can be decreased by making use of the differences of different robot positions in calculations. An experiment was performed on a portable laser 3-D scanner and an ABB IRB-4400 industrial robot to test the validity of the proposed calibration approach. The experimental results show that this approach is simple and accurate compared to the conventional robot TCP calibration approach. (C) 2008 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers.
Owing to the high complexity and the non-linearity of ecosystems and the rapid development of technology in spatial data survey, soft computation is more and more widely used in ecohydraulics models. Soft computing is a broad field which includes cellular automata (CA), individual-based models (IBM) and box-based models with respect to paradigms, and artificial neural networks (ANN), fuzzy logic (FL), genetic algorithms (GA), chaos theory and rule-based method with respect to techniques. This chapter will concentrate on the use of CA and rule-based techniques to ecohydraulics models. Application cases include modelling of population dynamics, algal bloom forecasting and aquatic ecosystem succession.
This paper proposes the structure of hierarchical behavior controller for the inspection robot. And a fuzzy controller is designed based on the structure to realize the turning behavior of robot. The inspection robot is a multivariable, nonlinear, strongly coupling and underactuated dynamic system. It is difficult to establish an accurate mathematic model of the system. The fuzzy control method can be applicable to those objects which hardly have an accurate mathematic model or whose system parameters are variable. This paper also discusses the stability of fuzzy control system. The experiment results show that the designed fuzzy controller can meet the requirement of the obstacle-negotiation control system.
This paper proposes an obstacle forbidden zone based motion planning approach for multiple robots in unknown environments. In order to avoid possible collisions, the concept of forbidden zone is introduced, and the recurrent least square algorithm with restricted scale is adopted to anticipate the motions of other robots. After eliminating those candidate directions that are blocked by static and dynamic predictive obstacle forbidden zones successively, all collision-free directions are obtained and the suitable one is chosen with the consideration of goal information. The rationality of the proposed approach has been validated by simulations.
This paper presents a navigation simulation system on lunar rover. With virtual reality technology, this system serves to verify the kinematics model and the validity of the planning-path for navigating lunar rover. Because the lunar terrain can not be treated as the 2D surface, the kinematics modeling of lunar rover unlike ordinary mobile robots needs to contain the information about terrain. This model assumes that the point of wheel-terrain point changes continuously. However, the terrain geometry and discretization in simulation do not meet this assumption so that error will destroy the simulation effect. An optimization strategy is proposed to eliminate this error and keeps tight contact between the wheels and the terrain. Finally, experiments validate the optimization method and the whole simulation system.
The dual heuristic programming (DHP) approach has a superior capability to solve approximate dynamic programming problems in the family of adaptive critic designs (ACDs). In this paper, a DHP based controller is developed for vibration isolation applications. In the specific case of. an active-passive isolator, a multilayer feedforward neural network is pretrained as a differentiable model of the plant for the adaptation of the critic and action networks. In addition, in order to avoid plunging in the local minima during the training process, pseudorandom signals, which represent the vibrations of the base, are applied to the vibration isolation system. This technique greatly improves the robustness of the DHP controller against unknown disturbances. Moreover, the "shadow critic" training strategy is adopted to improve the convergence rate of the training. Simulation results have shown that the developed DHP controller alleviates vibration disturbances more effectively and have better control performance in comparison with the passive isolator. Additionally, as compared with the one adapted on-line, the pre-trained model network leads the training to be more efficient. Therefore, it further demonstrates the effectiveness of the DHP controller designed with the pre-trained model network even in the presence of unmodeled uncertainties.
This paper mainly focuses on signal recovery using neural networks (NN) for digital signal processor (DSP) based infrared gas sensor. Data processing of the infrared gas sensor is discussed in detail, and then, the methods of solving two problems of the data processing are introduced. Finally, experiment results are presented to show the feasibilities and effectiveness of recovering signals using NN. The advantages and challenge of using NN in the infrared gas sensor are also analyzed.
A Quantum-inspired Q-learning (QIQL) algorithm is proposed for indoor robot navigation control. Q-learning is an action-dependent reinforcement learning method and has been widely used in robot navigation. Inspired by the fundamental characteristics of quantum computation, e.g. state superposition principle and quantum parallel computation, probability is introduced to Q-learning and along with the learning process the probability of each action to be selected at a certain state is updated, which leads to a natural exploration strategy instead of a pointed one with configured parameters. The simulated navigation experiments show that the proposed QIQL algorithm keeps a good balance of exploration and exploitation, which can avoid the local optimal policies and accelerate the learning process as well.
Artificial transportation systems (ATS) has been related to the study of complex systems and traffic simulation since its birth. Its relationship with complex systems and its connections, as well as differences from traditional traffic simulation systems pose an interesting problem. In this paper, according to two hypotheses about complex systems, we inferred three principles: synthesis, experimentation, and constant experimentation. We explored ATS from the perspective of complex systems, along with a diagram depicting the relationship between ATS-related concepts and methods. We then used the reasoning behind deploying agent-based modeling to explain why the principle of simple objects and relationships can be effective in ATS. We examined these principles from a complex adaptive systems perspective. Finally, essential differences between ATS and traditional traffic simulation systems are reported.
This paper aims at developing near optimal traffic signal control for multi-intersections in city. As a new optimization technique, adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) combines concepts of reinforcement learning and dynamic programming. ADP could learn continually from experience to achieve a near optimal control policy under varying conditions. However, without the cooperation among adjacent intersections, the near optimal control for each individual intersection can not guarantee a larger traffic area composing several intersections to be near optimal. This paper presents a new signal control method based on a model-free action-dependent ADP (ADHDP). This method can be used for cooperative control of multiple intersections. In every intersection, an ADHDP signal controller is adopted to adjust signal time according to an integrated unity parameter. The unity parameter is designed to consider not only the control performance in local intersection but also those in the neighbor intersections. Thus the designed controllers could achieve a set of near optimal control police for multi-intersections in a long run. Simulation results show that the trained controller achieves shorter average vehicular delay.
we presented a novel control method in previous studies, which is action-dependent heuristic dynamic programming based on eligibility traces (ADHDP (lambda)). Although ADHDP (lambda) has good performance in local ramp metering; control, it can't efficiently deal with the problems of multiple ramp metering control. Then in this article, a new method which is called dual heuristic programming based on eligibility traces (DHP (lambda)) is presented. The new method DHP (lambda) is composed of DHP and eligibility traces. DHP has efficiently solved the problem of coordinate ramp metering control, and eligibility traces can accelerate the learning rate of DHP. DHP (lambda) is an approximate optimal ramp metering method. Simulation studies on a hypothetical freeway are reported, whereby the results are compared with those obtained by applying ALINEA as a stand-alone strategy. It is shown that the proposed control scheme is efficient.
An adaptive control approach is proposed to deal with the multiple manipulators consensus problem based on the multi-agent theory. In the current multi-agent literature, agents were assumed to have determined models. However, the practical manipulator's kinematics contains uncertain parameters. By using the projection method, the adaptive updating law for uncertain kinematic parameters is derived. Then, the estimated manipulator Jacobian matrix can be obtained to design the decentralized controller. By the proposed controller, all the manipulators' end-effectors move towards the same configuration to achieve certain coordination tasks. In addition, performance of the control system is analyzed by the Lyapunov method, and the consensus error is proved to approach zero. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed scheme is illustrated by simulations on a multiple PUMA 560 robots system.
The data produced by atmosphere sense equipments is huge amount and plays an important role in weather prediction. Everyday there are terabyte and petabyte-scale data are collected. A new class of 'data grid' infrastructure is efficient to support management, transfer, distributed access and analysis of these datasets by potentially thousands of users. Intelligent agents can play an important role in helping achieve the 'data grid' vision. In this paper, we present a multi-agent based system framework, to manage, share, and query weather data in a geographical distributed environment. Information retrieval can be conducted either locally, or in a distributed scenario. We believe this will be a useful platform for research on weather data sharing system in a national area.
In this paper, we consider the coordination control of a group of heterogeneous autonomous agents with two kinds of agents: leaders (informed agents) and followers. The stability of whole agent group guided by these leaders to a desired convex region is mainly investigated though the interconnection topology keeps switching. Sufficient conditions on the multi-agent coordination are proposed with help of graph theory and non-smooth analysis. With first-order individual dynamics model using the neighborhood rule, the group of the agents will flock to the target set or reach a state agreement.
Many natural and artificial systems, for example, fish school, bird flocks, robot team, are often composed of two different classes of agents: autonomous agents and leaders. The leaders have pertinent, information, such as the location of the food source, while the autonomous agents make decisions according to local interactions. Then a basic problem is: how many leaders are required in order to induce all agents move with the same direction as leaders(such collective behavior is called consensus)? In this paper, we will consider a simple, but typical model proposed by Vicsek et al.(Vicsek model), in addition to the ordinary agents moving at the constant velocity with heading updated according to local rules, we add some leaders at the same velocity but with fixed heading. We will show that in order to induce the whole system reach consensus, the proportion of the leaders decreases as the number of autonomous agents increases under some conditions on the velocity v and neighborhood radius r. And the numerical examples are given to illustrate the necessity of the leaders. The proof is based on the analysis of the system dynamics and the initial neighbor graph, where multi-array martingale theorem play a key role.
A tension fuzzy variable-structure control system was designed for constant tension of electric cable plastic wrapping automatic production process. This system contains two inner loops for current and velocity and one outer tension loop, the two inner loops are both using PI regulators; its outer loop for tension control is using fuzzy controller. Simulation results indicate that the fuzzy controller has better performances than classical PID control method.The system has quick speed of response and stronger robustness for constant tension of electric cable control, and improves the precision about the thickness and shapes of steel straps.
This paper presents a practical swimming data prediction method for a free-swimming, three-link robotic fish. Since a full hydrodynamic model for fish swimming is very complex and intractable, the primitive swimming data generated by a Central Pattern Generator controller is fed into a Back-Propagation Neural Network (BPNN) for trimming. After the process of training, the BPNN is able to predict the actual swimming data for various swimming patterns without dynamic modeling. Preliminary simulation and experimental results on swimming control show the effectiveness of the proposed prediction method as well as its potential for other flexible link-based robots.
This paper proposes a methodology based on multi-layer multi-agent models, which is different from the existing multi-agent ones used in power system. In order to the performance evaluation of damping controllers of a power system, the considered system is modeled as a two-layer multi-agent system. The first layer is the device layer, which includes the generator and its associated controllers, and the second layer is the information layer, which is composed of the information agents, exchanging the information based on the wide area measurement system (WAMS) and sending the control signals to the power system stabilizers (PSSs). In the light of the proposed model, an index is presented to evaluate the performance of damping controllers to the system's inter-area oscillation with certain structures of the information interconnection layer. The index is corresponding to an optimal problem which minimize the distance of the special eigenvalue with respect to the image axis with fixed information layer structure. Furthermore, the impact of information interconnection structure on the damping performance is addressed. Finally, the simulation results in the 2-area 4-generator power system show the effectiveness of the proposed method.
This paper investigates the average-consensus problem of first-order discrete-time multi-agent networks in uncertain communication environments. Each agent can only use its own and neighbors' information with stochastic communication noises to design its control input. To attenuate the noises, a distributed stochastic approximation type protocol is proposed. By using probability limit theory and algebraic graph theory, consensus conditions for this kind of protocols are obtained. A necessary and sufficient condition for mean square average-consensus is given for the case of fixed topologies; and sufficient conditions are given for the case of time-varying topologies. Especially, if the network switches between jointly-containing-spanning-tree, balanced graphs, then the designed protocol can guarantee that each individual state converges in mean square to a common random variable, whose expectation is right the average of the initial states of the whole system.
This paper considers the problem of robust consensus for a basic class of multi-agent systems with bounded disturbances and with directed information flow. A necessary and sufficient condition on the robust consensus is first presented, which is then applied to the analysis, control and decision making problems in the noise environments. In particular, we will show how a soft control technique will synchronize a group of autonomous mobile agents without changing the existing local rule of interactions, and without assuming any kind of connectivity conditions on the system trajectories.
It is challenging to provide end users an easy-to-use problem-solving toot to combine data from different sources and reuse the results. Inspired by spreadsheets, we argue that spreadsheet-like programming paradigm can help to reduce the complexity and to improve user experience in building mashups. In this paper, we propose a spreadsheet-like construct as the basis of this mashup building paradigm. The construct includes a data model, a "nested table" view structure and a set of carefully chosen mashup operators. Data from a variety Of sources is structured like a spreadsheet, and end-users are not necessarily aware of the underlining data flow. SpiderCharlotte, a tool to help end users to build situational applications for their daily uses, was developed to demonstrate the characteristics of this construct.
Privacy preservation is crucial in ubiquitous computing environment. Without this, users feel uneasy to use and live in the UC environment. The implementation of privacy safeguard or privacy enhancing technologies is going to be a long road Understanding the challenges & issues of privacy protected in ubiquitous computing, is helpful to design and implement privacy aware system. In this paper, we try to describe privacy in ubiquitous computing briefly. The challenges, which are different from usually system, are presented. In the implementation view, some issues are addressed.
The cognitive models of internal language processing in the brain are fundamental areas in cognitive informatics. Neuropsychology is a useful method which effectively reveals the mechanisms of the knowledge representation of natural intelligence. Because reading is a basic intelligence processing, a model based on neuropsychological research may explain the fundamental mechanism of the reading process front clinical aspect. This article presents a novel cognitive model to explain the process of reading Chinese characters. A study of a Chinese patient with surface dyslexia indicates that there are two distinctive pathways in reading Chinese characters. And the is,hole process of reading Chinese characters is a nested process. The model that explains the mechanisms of reading process in the brain is described, and the physical and physiological meanings of this model are explained. In summary, this new novel model can be employed to contribute for reading model development of artificial intelligence.
This article analyses nowadays in common use of football robots in China,intended to improve the football robots' hardware platform system's capability,and designed a football robot which based on DSP core controller,and combined Fuzzy-PID control algorithm. The experiment showed, because of the advantages of DSP, such as quickly operation, various of interfaces, low power dissipation etc. It has great improvement on the football robot's performance of movement, controlling precision, real-time performance.
Many real-world large-scale complex networks demonstrate a surprising degree of synchronization. To unravel the underlying mechanics of synchronization in these complex networks, a generally linearly hybrid coupled network with time-varying delay is proposed, and its global synchronization is then further investigated. Several effective sufficient conditions of global synchronization are attained based on the Lyapunov function and a linear matrix inequality (LMI). Both delay-independent and delay-dependent conditions are deduced. In particular, the coupling matrix may be nonsymmetric or nondiagonal. Moreover, the derivative of the time-varying delay is extended to any given value. Finally, a small-world network, a regular network, and scale-free networks with network size are constructed to show the effectiveness of the proposed synchronous criteria.
DNA barcoding as a method for species identification is rapidly increasing in popularity. However, there are still relatively few rigorous methodological tests of DNA barcoding. Current distance-based methods are frequently criticized for treating the nearest neighbor as the closest relative via a raw similarity score, lacking an objective set of criteria to delineate taxa, or for being incongruent with classical character-based taxonomy. Here, we propose an artificial intelligence-based approachinferring species membership via DNA barcoding with back-propagation neural networks (named BP-based species identification)as a new advance to the spectrum of available methods. We demonstrate the value of this approach with simulated data sets representing different levels of sequence variation under coalescent simulations with various evolutionary models, as well as with two empirical data sets of COI sequences from East Asian ground beetles (Carabidae) and Costa Rican skipper butterflies. With a 630-to 690-bp fragment of the COI gene, we identified 97.50% of 80 unknown sequences of ground beetles, 95.63%, 96.10%, and 100% of 275, 205, and 9 unknown sequences of the neotropical skipper butterfly to their correct species, respectively. Our simulation studies indicate that the success rates of species identification depend on the divergence of sequences, the length of sequences, and the number of reference sequences. Particularly in cases involving incomplete lineage sorting, this new BP-based method appears to be superior to commonly used methods for DNA-based species identification.
In order to realize the automation of space control of automobile, an intelligent control system was designed, which consists of a laser rangefinders, a speed sensor, a digital controller and a performing motor. The laser rangefinders were developed for the system. The digital controller adopted PIC16F877 SCM, and a step motor was utilized for the performing. Using fuzzy logic theory, an intelligent control scheme was developed to realize the automation of space control according to the error for space and speed in the automobile cruise control system. The method needn't build the accurate mathematic model of object, but according to the artificial experience or state to build the control rule. It avoids the object's uncertainty, noise, infection of nonlinearity and variable time. The experimental results show that anticipative aims are achieved on the prototype machine.
We present a new approach, namely kernel regression, to determine photometric redshifts for 399 929 galaxies in the Fifth Data Release of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). Kernel regression is a weighted average of spectral redshifts of the neighbours for a query point, and higher weights are associated with points that are closer to the query point. One important design decision when using kernel regression is the choice of bandwidth. We apply 10-fold cross-validation to choose the optimal bandwidth, which is obtained as the cross-validation error approaches its minimum. The results show that the optimal bandwidth is different for different input patterns: the lowest rms error of photometric redshift estimation arrives at 0.019 using colour+eClass as the inputs, the lowest rms errors comes to 0.020 using ugriz+eClass as the inputs. Where eClass is a galaxy spectral type, and 0.021 using colour+r as the inputs. Thus, in addition to parameters such as magnitude and colour, eClass is a valid parameter with which to predict photometric redshifts. Moreover, the results suggest that the accuracy of estimating photometric redshifts is improved when the sample is divided into early-type and late-type galaxies; in particular, for early-type galaxies, the rms scatter is 0.016 with colour+eClass as the inputs. In addition, kernel regression achieves high accuracy when predicting the photometric eClass (sigma(rms)= 0.034) using colour+r as the input pattern. For kernel regression, the accuracy of the photometric redshifts does not always increase with the number of parameters considered, but is satisfactory only when appropriate parameters are chosen. Kernel regression is a comprehensible and accurate regression method. Experiments reveal the superiority of kernel regression over other empirical training approaches.
In this letter, a novel modular neural network (MNN) classifier, which partitions a K-class problem into many much easier two-class problems in sub-subspaces, was proposed to perform palmprint recognition. Moreover, in order to make palmprint recognition more accurate, we introduced 2DPCA technique into the extraction of palmprint features, and removed the illumination information from the collected palm images using w/o3 technique. Our approach was compared with several existing methods, and obtained a satisfying classification performance on the Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) Palmprint Database. (C) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Prediction of protein domain structural classes is an important topic in protein science. In this paper, we proposed a new conception: structural class tendency of polypeptides (SCTP), which is based on the fact that a given amino acid fragment tends to be presented in certain type of proteins. The SCTP is obtained from an available training data set PDB40-B. When using the SCTP to predict protein structural classes by Intimate Sorting predictive method, we got the predictive accuracy (jack knife test) with 93.7%, 96.5%, and 78.6% for the testing data set PDB40-j, Chou&Maggiora and CHOU. These results indicate that the SCTP approach is quite encouraging and promising. This new conception provides an effective tool to extract valuable information from protein sequences. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This letter is concerned with the stability analysis of neural networks (NNs) with time-varying interval delay. The relationship between the time-varying delay and its lower and upper bounds is taken into account when estimating the upper bound of the derivative of Lyapunov functional. As a result, some improved delay/interval-dependent stability criteria for NNs with time-varying interval delay are proposed. Numerical examples are given to demonstrate the effectiveness and the merits of the proposed method.
Objective: Recently, gene expression profiling using microarray techniques has been shown as a promising tool to improve the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. Gene expression data contain high level. of noise and the overwhelming number of genes relative to the number of available samples. It brings out a great challenge for machine learning and statistic techniques. Support vector machine (SVM) has been successfully used to classify gene expression data of cancer tissue. In the medical field, it is crucial to deliver the user a transparent decision process. How to explain the computed solutions and present the extracted knowledge becomes a main obstacle for SVM.
Controlling of solids retention time (SRT) in the activated sludge process is critical for ensuring effective wastewater treatment. Because of the disadvantages of conventional control methods, the hydraulic method of controlling SRT was improved in this study and applied into the step-feed biological nitrogen removal process. After the application of the hydraulic control method, conventional SRT changed from 17.67 to 19.08 days and hydraulic SRT was constant at a desired 20 days. Hydraulic control of SRT simplified process control, and produced good effluent quality where the total nitrogen removal efficiency with four stages ascended from 72.6 to 85%. Variations of hydraulic SRT under different influent wastewater strength and flow rates were investigated, and the results showed that a relative constant SRT value could be maintained easily. The feasibilities of applying the hydraulic method of controlling SRT in step-feed biological nitrogen removal process with different operational modes, including different stage numbers processes, different influent flow rate distributions, and volumes in each stage and different volume ratios of the anoxic zone to the aerobic in each stage, were verified and the results were satisfactory. Under constant SRT the total nitrogen removal efficiency of the step-feeding process with three, four, and five stages was 80, 85, and 95%, respectively.
Multi-variable generalized predictive control algorithm has obtained great success in process industries. However, it suffers from a high computational cost because the multi-stage optimization approach in the algorithm is time-consuming when constraints of the control system are considered. In this paper, a dual neural network is employed to deal with the multi-stage optimization problem, and bounded constraints on the input and output signals of the control system are taken into account. The dual neural network has many favorable features such as simple structure, rapid execution, and easy implementation. Therefore, the computation efficiency, in comparison with the consecutive executions of numerical algorithms on digital computers, is increased dramatically. In addition, the dual network model can yield the exact optimum values of future control signals while many other neural networks only obtain the approximate optimal solutions. Hence the multi-variable generalized predictive control algorithm based on the dual neural network is suitable for industrial applications with the real-time computation requirement. Simulation examples are given to demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed approach.
The reconfigurable modular robot has an enormous amount of configurations to adapt to various environments and tasks. It greatly increases the complexity of configuration research in that the possible configuration number of the reconfigurable modular robot grows exponentially with the increase of module number. Being the initial configuration or the basic configuration of the reconfigurable robot, the center-configuration plays a crucial role in system's actual applications. In this paper, a novel center-configuration selection technique has been proposed for reconfigurable modular robots. Based on the similarities between configurations' transformation and graph theory, configuration network has been applied in the modeling and analyzing of these configurations. Configuration adjacency matrix, reconfirmation cost matrix, and center-configuration coefficient have been defined for the configuration network correspondingly. Being similar to the center-location problem, the center configuration has been selected according to the largest center-configuration coefficient. As an example of the reconfigurable robotic system, AMOEBA-I, a three-module reconfigurable robot with nine configurations which was developed in Shenyang Institute of Automation (SIA), Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), has been introduced briefly. According to the numerical simulation result, the center-configuration coefficients for these nine configurations have been calculated and compared to validate this technique. Lastly, a center-configuration selection example is provided with consideration of the adjacent configurations. The center-configuration selection technique proposed in this paper is also available to other reconfigurable modular robots.
The well-known Generalized Champagne Problem on simultaneous stabilization of linear systems is solved by using complex analysis and Blondel's technique. We give a complete answer to the open problem proposed by Patel et al., which automatically includes the solution to the original Champagne Problem. Based on the recent development in automated inequality-type theorem proving, a new stabilizing controller design method is established. Our numerical examples significantly improve the relevant results in the literature.
One of the difficulties encountered in the application of reinforcement learning methods to real-world problems is their limited ability to cope with large-scale or continuous spaces. In order to solve the curse of the dimensionality problem, resulting from making continuous state or action spaces discrete, a new fuzzy Actor-Critic reinforcement learning network (FACRLN) based on a fuzzy radial basis function (FRBF) neural network is proposed. The architecture of FACRLN is realized by a four-layer FRBF neural network that is used to approximate both the action value function of the Actor and the state value function of the Critic simultaneously. The Actor and the Critic networks share the input, rule and normalized layers of the FRBF network, which can reduce the demands for storage space from the learning system and avoid repeated computations for the outputs of the rule units. Moreover, the FRBF network is able to adjust its structure and parameters in an adaptive way with a novel self-organizing approach according to the complexity of the task and the progress in learning, which ensures an economic size of the network. Experimental studies concerning a cart-pole balancing control illustrate the performance and applicability of the proposed FACRLN. (C) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this paper, adaptive synchronization with unknown parameters is discussed for a unified chaotic system by using the Lyapunov method and the adaptive control approach. Some communication schemes, including chaotic masking, chaotic modulation, and chaotic shift key strategies, are then proposed based on the modified adaptive method. The transmitted signal is masked by chaotic signal or modulated into the system, which effectively blurs the constructed return map and can resist this return map attack. The driving system with unknown parameters and functions is almost completely unknown to the attackers, so it is more secure to apply this method into the communication. Finally, some simulation examples based on the proposed communication schemes and some cryptanalysis works are also given to verify the theoretical analysis in this paper.
.This paper gives a coordination method for two biomimetic robotic fish in transporting box-like object task. To simplify the difficulty of path planning and action decision when a fish is moving towards the object, a situated-behaviour design method is employed to divide the environment into a set of complete and exclusive situations. For each situation, a specific behaviour is designed. On dealing with the synchronisation and the object orientation control problems in the particular underwater environment, fuzzy logic method is adopted for motion planning of the fish. Experimental results of the box-pushing task performed by two robotic fish validate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Decision support system (DSS) aims to provide effective support to solve unstructured, ill-structured or wicked problems as its initial claim in the late 1960s. Great as those technology achievements, "people problems" are key reasons of unimplemented goals of DSS, and sometimes increase uncertainties to decision making process. Meta-synthesis system approach (MSA) is oriented to complexities in those problems. In this paper, we adopt a paradigm of decision making in a DSS context, which emphasizes the synthesis of perspectives towards problems description and analysis, to explain the meta-synthetic support to unstructured problem solving. After very brief introduction of basic ideas of MSA and its testbed, Hall of Workshop on Meta-Synthetic Engineering (HWMSE), which is regarded as a knowledge creating ba, we address computerized supports to expose problem structure by collaborative activities for qualitative meta-synthesis. A practical tool and its visualization of humans' ideas are introduced.
Meta-synthesis system approach (MSA) is proposed to tackle with open complex giant systems (OCGS) problems by Chinese system scientists since the late 1980s. Its essential idea can be simplified as from con. dent qualitative hypothesis to vigorous quantitative validation. To apply this approach, the synthesis of human expert opinions and emergent knowing, machines' powerful computing capacity and the available knowledge and cases are specifically emphasized from the perspective of systems engineering practice. Then the MSA practice may bring new understandings, knowledge and even paradigms about messy and unknown issues, which are under exploration in knowledge science research. In this paper, MSA to knowledge science is addressed. After brief introduction of meta-synthesis approach, a working flow of MSA during problem solving process is addressed and leads to meta-synthetic view toward knowledge science, especially on knowledge creation. Next comes brief introduction to a test for demonstrating the MSA to a macroeconomic problem, which shows a new paradigm to macroeconomic problem solving, a kind of knowledge creation which is different from general macroeconomic problem solving.
Dynamic Power Management (DPM) is a technique to reduce power consumption of electronic system. by selectively shutting down idle components. In this article we try to introduce back propagation network and radial basis network into the research of the system-level policies. We proposed two PAY policies-Back propagation Power Management (BPPM) and Radial Basis Function Power management (RBFPM) which are based on Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). Our experiments show that the two power management policies greatly lowered the system-level power consumption and have higher performance than traditional Power Management(PM) techniques-BPPM is 1.09-competitive and RBFPM is 1.08-competitive vs. 1.79,145,1.18-competitive separately for traditional timeout PM, adaptive predictive PM and stochastic PM.
Automatic molecular classification of cancer based on DNA microarray has many advantages over conventional classification based on morphological appearance of the tumor. Using artificial neural networks is a general approach for automatic classification. In this paper, Direction-Basis-Function neuron and Priority-Ordered algorithm are applied to neural networks. And the leukemia gene expression dataset is used as an example to testify the classifier. The result of our method is compared to that of SVM. It shows that our method makes a better performance than SVM.
In this study, we discuss the use of supervised neural networks as a metamodeling technique to design a practical and powerful parallel data mining system. First of all, a bagging sampling technique is used to generate different training sets. Based on the different training sets, the different neural network models with various training sets are then trained to formulate different data mining models, i.e., base mining models. Finally, a metamodel can be produced by learning from all base mining models with neural-network-based metalearning strategy. For verification, a practical data mining experiment is performed for illustration purpose.
In the practical control system, to control pH value is a typical nonlinear control problem; because of the badly nonlinear titration curve make the neutralization reaction bring great discrepancy in different working point, otherwise there are many cunctation taches such as mixture, measure etc make the process control difficult. The paper presents adopting memorizer function transforming technology to realize the two dimension fuzzy look up table whose characteristic is set up a mapping relation between memorizer and the content in the address, the output of look up table fuzzy control (LUTFC) stores in the memorizer after some changing, takes the error and error changing rate as the two dimensional address. Under the control (of impulse, the controller exports control value to control the object by address mapping. The experiment and simulation indicate that the controller could make the system get the satisfying control quality, while request little prior knowledge of being controlled process, and adapt to the environmental changing very well. The technology is an available method to realize the brainpower control.
In this paper, a neuro-fuzzy control controller in conjunction with modeling of recurrent neural network for mini-bus suspension system applied to suspension vibration control is presented. The recurrent neural network with2 input neurons, I output neuron and 5 recurrent neurons in the hidden layer is used to simulate behaviors of mini-bus suspension via recursive prediction error algorithm. The modeling of recurrent neural network has identified mini-bus suspension dynamic parameters and provided learning signals to neuro-fuzzy control controller. The neuro-fuzzy control algorithms, which are based on multi-layer neural networks and fuzzy reason, are applied to a mini-bus suspension control system based on DSP microprocessor. The mini-bus suspension control plant is used to tune neuro-fuzzy controller parameters using a set of fuzzy rules. In order to verify control results, a ChangAn's star mini-bus fitted with the neuro-fuzzy control system based on DSP microprocessor and magneto-rheological fluid shock absorber has been experimented with various velocity and road surfaces. The control results have been compared with those of open loop passive suspension system. These results show,that neural control algorithm exhibits good performance to reduction of mini-bus vibration.
According to the characteristic of high speed drawing frame auto-leveling: open loop can avoid the dead zone, but can't ease or eliminate the influence of disturbance; close loop can reduce the influence of disturbance, but can't avoid the dead zone, under the influence of disturbance model is hard to build; and high speed of drawing frame has high demand on hardware and software. Based on new hardware architecture a new auto-leveling control system with mixed loop and fuzzy method is put forward, in which open loop is designed to get the basic control value and close loop inferring from fuzzy control rules to get the increment value and decrease the influence of disturbance by correcting the basic control value obtained from open loop. In conclusion, experiment in FA398 proves the applicability of this system for auto-leveling of high speed drawing frame.
A modified counter propagation network model and an extended self-organizing map model have the same three-layer network architecture while employing slightly different learning rules. Their network architecture comprises an input layer, a Kohonen layer and an output layer. The neurons between two neighboring layers are fully connected and the neighboring neurons within the Kohonen layer also have neighborhood connections. The modified counter propagation network model employs the Kohonen algorithm to train the Kohonen layer while using the Widrow-Hoff rule to train the output layer. However, the extended self-organizing map model applies a modified Kohonen's learning rule to train both the Kohonen layer and the output layer. This paper compares the performances of these two models in supervised classification of remotely sensed data. The training results show that compared to the extended self-organizing map model, the modified counter propagation model has faster learning speed but larger output errors. The classification results indicate that the extended self-organizing map model has a faster classification speed and a much higher classification precision than the modified counter propagation model.
A two-step learning scheme for radial basis function neural networks, which combines the genetic algorithm (GA) with the hybrid learning algorithm (HLA), is proposed in this paper. It is compared with the methods of the GA, the recursive orthogonal least square algorithm (ROLSA) and another two-step learning scheme for RBF neural networks, which combines the K-means clustering with the HLA (K-means + HLA). Our proposed method has the best generalization performance. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A combination of H-1 nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and principal component analysis (PCA) has shown the potential for being a useful method for classification of type, production origin or geographic origin of wines. In this preliminary study, twenty-one bottled wines were classified/separated for their location of production in Shacheng, Changli and Yantai, and the types of the blended, medium dry, dry white and dry red wines, using the NMR-PCA method. The wines were produced by three subsidiary companies of an enterprise according to the same national standard. The separation was believed to be mainly due to the fermentation process for different wines and environmental variations, such as local climate, soil, underground water, sunlight and rainfall. The major chemicals associated with the separation were identified.
An automated manufacturing system (AMS) contains a number of versatile machines (or. workstations), buffers, and an automated material handling system (MHS). The MHS can be an automated guide vehicle (AGV) system, and/or a system that consists of multiple robots. Deadlock resolution in AMS is an important issue. For the AMS with an AGV system as MHS, the problems of deadlock resolution for part processing process and AGV system as an integrated system has been studied. It is shown that AGVs can serve as both material handling devices and central buffers at the same time to help resolve deadlocks. For AMS with robots as MHS, the existing work treated the robots just as material handling devices and showed that the robots had contribution to deadlock. In this paper, such AMS is modelled by resource-oriented Petri nets. Contrary to the existing work, it is shown that the robots have no contribution to deadlock by adopting such nets to control AMS. More interestingly, they can be used to resolve deadlock. by serving as temporary part storage devices. A new deadlock control policy is proposed by treating robots as both material handling devices and buffers. The new policy outperforms the existing ones.
This paper presents a coordination method for multiple biomimetic robotic fish in underwater transport task. Based on our robotic fish prototype, we further investigate the coordination problems of multiple robotic fish. Considering the kinematic constraints of the robotic fish, and the unstructured and dynamic characteristics of the water environment, we utilize the limit cycle approach to control the posture of the fish and realize collision avoidance. To control the transport orientation in the particular underwater environment, the fuzzy logic method is adopted. Experimental results of transportation performed by three robotic fish validate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
This paper discusses two problems: one is some important theories and algorithms of affine bracket algebra; the other is about their applications in mechanical theorem proving. First we give some efficient algorithms including the boundary expanding algorithm which is a key feature in application. We analyze the characteristics of the boundary operator and this is the base for the implementation of the system. We also give some new theories or methods about the exact division, the representations and structure of affine geometry and so on. In practice, we implement the mechanical auto-proving system in Maple 10 based on the above algorithms and theories. Also we test about more than 100 examples and compare the results with the methods before.
Land use and land cover change is a major issue in global environment change, and is especially significant in rapidly developing regions in the world. With its economic development, population growth, and urbanization, Guangzhou, a major metropolitan in South China, have experienced a dramatic land use and land cover ( LULC) change over the past 30 years. Fast LULC change have resulted in degradation of its ecosystems and affected adversely the environment. It is urgently needed to monitor its LULC changes and to analyses the consequences of these changes in order to provide information for policy-makers to support sustainable development. This study employed two Landsat TM/ ETM+ images in the dry season to detect LULC patterns in 1998 and 2003, and to examine LULC changes during the period from 1998 to 2003. The type, rate, and pattern of the changes among five counties of Guangzhou Municipality were analyzed in details by post classification method. LULC conversion matrix was produced for each county in order to explore and explain the urban expansion and cropland loss, the most significant types of LULC change. Land use conversion matrixes of five counties were discussed respectively in order to explore and explain the inherence of land use change. The results showed that urban expansion in these five counties kept an even rate of increase, while substantial amount of cropland vanished during the period. It is also noted that the conversion between cropland and orchard land was intensive. Forest land became the main source of new croplands.
Assigning subcellular localization (SL) to proteins is one of the major tasks of functional proteomics. Despite the impressive technical advances of the past decades, it is still time-consuming and laborious to experimentally determine SL on a high throughput scale. Thus, computational predictions are the preferred method for large-scale assignment of protein SL, and if appropriate, followed up by experimental studies. In this report, using a machine learning approach, the Nearest Neighbor Algorithm (NNA), we developed a prediction system for protein SL in which we incorporated a protein functional domain profile. The overall accuracy achieved by this system is 93.96%. Furthermore, comparisons with other methods have been conducted to demonstrate the validity and efficiency of our prediction system. We also provide an implementation of our Subcellular Location Prediction System (SLPS), which is available at http://pcal.biosino.org. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Molecular descriptors represent structural and physicochemical features of compounds. They have been extensively used for developing statistical models, such as quantitative structure activity relationship (QSAR) and artificial neural networks (NN), for computer prediction of the pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic, or toxicological properties of compounds from their structure. While computer programs have been developed for computing molecular descriptors, there is a lack of a freely accessible one. We have developed a web-based server, MODEL (Molecular Descriptor Lab), for computing a comprehensive set of 3,778 molecular descriptors, which is significantly more than the similar to 1,600 molecular descriptors computed by other software. Our computational algorithms have been extensively tested and the computed molecular descriptors have been used in a number of published works of statistical models for predicting variety of pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological properties of compounds. Several testing studies on the computed molecular descriptors are discussed. MODEL is accessible at http://jing.cz3.nus.edu.sg/cgi-bin/model/model.cgi free of charge for academic use.
In this paper, a class of general Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with impulse is studied. Based on the method of Lyapunov functional, sufficient conditions on global exponential stability are given. Furthermore, many corollaries are obtained. Our results improve some of the earlier findings, and are suitable for many applications. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Sensors are used not only-to provide a snapshot of the state of the system for control purposes but also to maintain system health through fault diagnostics and recovery. Among all sensor validation methods, auto-associative neural networks (AANN) have increasingly gained popularity. Correct sensor clustering results axe critical for enabling the successful operations of AANN. However, it is very difficult to obtain the grouping results best fitting to AANN because clustering is a NP hard problem. In this paper, we propose a clustering algorithm based on genetic algorithms (GA). We present a strategy to set up the fitness functions for problems with an unknown number of clusters. Consequently, the reproduction operators of GA are studied with characteristics of clustering problems. The methods proposed in this paper can eliminate redundancy in coding and improve the performance of crossover. The resulting algorithm has the advantage of building both small and large building blocks in the process of optimization with GA that leads to fast convergence. Sensor clustering experimental results show that the proposed algorithm needs a smaller search space to get the optimal or near optimal clustering results.
Lake Dianchi is a shallow and turbid lake, located in Southwest China. Since 1985, Lake Dianchi has experienced severe cyanabacterial blooms (dominated by Microcystis spp.). In extreme cases, the algal cell densities have exceeded three billion cells per liter. To predict and elucidate the population dynamics ofMicrocystis spp. in Lake Dianchi, a neural network based model was developed. The correlation coefficient (R 2) between the predicted algal concentrations by the model and the observed values was 0.911. Sensitivity analysis was performed to clarify the algal dynamics to the changes of environmental factors. The results of a sensitivity analysis of the neural network model suggested that small increases in pH could cause significantly reduced algal abundance. Further investigations on raw data showed that the response of Microcystis spp. concentration to pH increase was dependent on algal biomass and pH level. When Microcystis spp. population and pH were moderate or low, the response of Microcystis spp. population would be more likely to be positive in Lake Dianchi; contrarily, Microcystis spp. population in Lake Dianchi would be more likely to show negative response to pH increase when Microcystis spp. population and pH were high. The paper concluded that the extremely high concentration of algal population and high pH could explain the distinctive response of Microcystis spp. population to +1 SD (standard deviation) pH increase in Lake Dianchi. And the paper also elucidated the algal dynamics to changes of other environmental factors. One SD increase of water temperature (WT) had strongest positive relationship with Microcystis spp. biomass. Chemical oxygen demand (COD) and total phosphorus (TP) had strong positive effect on Microcystis spp. abundance while total nitrogen (TN), biological oxygen demand in five days (BOD5), and dissolved oxygen had only weak relationship with Microcystis spp. concentration. And transparency (Tr) had moderate positive relationship with Microcystis spp. concentration.
Complex problem solving requires diverse expertise and multiple techniques. In order to solve such problems, complex multi-agent systems that include both of human experts and autonomous agents are required in many application domains. Most complex multi-agent systems work in open domains and include various heterogeneous agents. Due to the heterogeneity of agents and dynamic features of working environments, expertise and capabilities of agents might not be well estimated and presented in these systems. Therefore, how to discover useful knowledge from human and autonomous experts, make more accurate estimation for experts' capabilities and find out suitable expert(s) to solve incoming problems ("Expert Mining") are important research issues in the area of multi-agent system. In this paper, we introduce an ontology-based approach for knowledge and expert mining in hybrid multi-agent systems. In this research, ontologies are hired to describe knowledge of the system. Knowledge and expert mining processes are executed as the system handles incoming problems. In this approach, we embed more self-learning and self-adjusting abilities in multi-agent systems, so as to help in discovering knowledge of heterogeneous experts of multi-agent systems.
Multi-agent systems arise from diverse fields in natural and artificial systems, and a basic problem is to understand how locally interacting agents lead to collective behaviors (e.g., synchronization) of the overall system. In this paper, we will consider a basic class of multi-agent systems that are described by a simplification of the well-known Vicsek model. This model looks simple, but the rigorous theoretical analysis is quite complicated, because there are strong nonlinear interactions among the agents in the model. In fact, most of the existing results on synchronization need to impose a certain connectivity condition on the global behaviors of the agents' trajectories (or on the closed-loop dynamic neighborhood graphs), which are quite hard to verify in general. In this paper, by introducing a probabilistic framework to this problem, we will provide a complete and rigorous proof for the fact that the overall multi-agent system will synchronize with large probability as long as the number of agents is large enough. The proof is based on a detailed analysis of both the dynamical properties of the nonlinear system evolution and the asymptotic properties of the spectrum of random geometric graphs.
Previous work has shown that Gabor feature extraction is one of the most effective techniques employed for the human face recognition problem. However, the selection of a particular set of Gabor filters is often problematic and, also the computational requirements are considerable. We propose an alternative feature extraction method - the Interest Operator - to be applied for the facial recognition problem. This method has already been successfully used in the mobile robots navigation, stereoscopic vision and automatic target recognition. Experimental results presented in this paper indicate that classifiers, both neural (Multi-layer Perceptron) and statistical (k Nearest Neighbour), using the Interest Operator - based feature extraction, are capable to achieve almost the same classification rate as the Gabor-wavelet-based methods but in one order of magnitude lower processing time. A special care has been put on the selection of the feature extraction filters and classifiers parameters. Then, on AT&T public facial database, the system has achieved an average recognition rate of 95.2% using Gabor Approach and 94.7% using the Interest Operator. (c) 2007 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, synchronization based parameter identification of dynamical systems from time series is carefully revisited. It is shown, based on rigorous theoretical analysis and concrete counterexamples, that some recent research reports on this issue are incomplete or even incorrect. A linear independence condition is pointed out, which is sufficient for such parameter identification of general dynamical systems.
Previous exposure to a pattern in the visual scene can enhance subsequent recognition of that pattern in many species from honeybees to humans. However, whether previous experience with a visual feature of an object, such as color or shape, can also facilitate later recognition of that particular feature from multiple visual features is largely unknown. Visual feature extraction is the ability to select the key component from multiple visual features. Using a visual flight simulator, we designed a novel protocol for visual feature extraction to investigate the effects of previous experience on visual reinforcement learning in Drosophila. We found that, after conditioning with a visual feature of objects among combinatorial shape-color features, wild-type flies exhibited poor ability to extract the correct visual feature. However, the ability for visual feature extraction was greatly enhanced in flies trained previously with that visual feature alone. Moreover, we demonstrated that flies might possess the ability to extract the abstract category of "shape" but not a particular shape. Finally, this experience-dependent feature extraction is absent in flies with defective MBs, one of the central brain structures in Drosophila. Our results indicate that previous experience can enhance visual feature extraction in Drosophila and that MBs are required for this experience-dependent visual cognition.
Multi-herb prescriptions of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) often include special herb-pairs for mutual enhancement, assistance, and restraint. These TCM herb-pairs have been assembled and interpreted based on traditionally defined herbal properties (TCM-HPs) without knowledge of mechanism of their assumed synergy. While these mechanisms are yet to be determined, properties of TCM herb-pairs can be investigated to determine if they exhibit features consistent with their claimed unique synergistic combinations. We analyzed distribution patterns of TCM-HPs of TCM herb-pairs to de sect signs indicative of possible synergy and used artificial intelligence (AI) methods to examine whether combination of their TCM-HPs are distinguishable from those of non-TCM herb-pairs assembled by random combinations and by modification of known TCM herb-pairs. Patterns of the majority of 394 known TCM herb-pairs were found to exhibit signs of herb-pair correlation. Three AI systems, trained and tested by using 394 TCM herb-pairs and 2470 non-TCM herb-pairs, correctly classified 72.1-87.9% of TCM herb-pairs and 91.6-97.6% of the non-TCM herb-pairs. The best AI system predicted 96.3% of the 27 known non-TCM herb-pairs and 99.7% of the other 1,065,100 possible herb-pairs as non-TCM herb-pairs. Our studies suggest that TCM-HPs of known TCM herb-pairs contain features distinguishable from those of non-TCM herb-pairs consistent with their claimed synergistic or modulating combinations. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a class of high-order Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with time delay is studied. Several sufficient conditions are obtained for global asymptotic stability and global exponential stability using Lyapunov and LMI method. Finally, two examples are given to illustrate the effectiveness of our method. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Various computational methods have been used for predicting protein function from clues contained in protein sequence. A particular challenge is the functional prediction of proteins that show low or no sequence similarity to proteins of known function. Recently, machine learning methods have been explored for predicting functional class of proteins from a variety of sequence-derived structural and physicochemical properties independent of sequence similarity, which showed promising potential for a broad spectrum of proteins including those that show low and no similarity to other proteins. These methods can thus be explored as potential tools to complement similarity-based, clustering-based and structure-based methods for predicting protein function. This article reviews the strategies, algorithms, current progresses, available software and web-servers, and underlying difficulties in using machine learning methods for predicting the functional class of proteins and peptides, and protein-protein interactions. The reported prediction performances in the application of these methods are also presented.
This note addresses a coordination problem of a multiagent system with jointly connected interconnection topologies. Neighbor-based rules are adopted to realize local control strategies for these continuoustime autonomous agents described by double integrators. Although the interagent connection structures vary over time and related graphs may not be connected, a sufficient condition to make all the agents converge to a common value is given for the problem by a proposed Lyapunov-based approach and related space decomposition technique.
An effective foreign exchange (forex) trading decision is usually dependent on effective forex forecasting. In this study, an intelligent system framework integrating forex forecasting and trading decision is first proposed. Based on this framework, an advanced intelligent decision support system (DSS) incorporating a back-propagation neural network (BPNN)-based forex forecasting subsystem and Web-based forex trading decision support subsystem is developed, which has been used to predict the directional change of daily forex rates and provide intelligent online decision support for financial institutions and individual investors. This article describes the forex forecasting and trading decision method, the system architecture, main functions, and operation of the developed DSS system. A comparative study is conducted between our developed system and others commonly used in order to assess the overall performance of the developed system. The assessment results show that our developed DSS outperforms some commonly used forex forecasting and trading decision systems and can provide intelligent e-service for forex traders to make useful trading decisions in the forex market. (c) 2007 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
The primary cortical cells were selected as a model to study the adherence and neural network development on chemically roughened silicon substrates without any coatings using confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM). The silicon substrates have a nano-range roughness (RMS) achieved by chemical etching using hydrofluoric (HF) acid. After 7 days of culturing, the neurons were observed to connect together and form dense neural networks. Furthermore, AFM results revealed that some porous structures at a few micrometer range existed between the neuron cells and the silicon substrates. It is suggested that the porous structures are made of extracellular matrix (ECM) components and play an important role in the neuronal adhesion and neurite outgrowth on the inert silicon wafers.
Insights are sporadic, unpredictable, short-lived moments of exceptional thinking where unwarranted assumptions need to be discarded before solutions to problems can be obtained. Insight requires a restructuring of the problem situation that is relatively rare and hard to elicit in the laboratory. One way of dealing with this problem is to catalyze such restructuring processes using solution hints. This allows one to obtain multiple insight events and their accurate onset times, which are required for event-related designs in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and Electroencephalogram (EEG), and to reliably record the activity associated with the restructuring component of insight. In this article, we discuss in detail the methodological challenges that brain research on insight poses and describe how we dealt with these challenges in our recent studies on insight problem solving. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
DFT-B3LYP method with 6-31G** basis set was employed to fully optimize the electronic structures of 135 polychlorinated dibenzofurans and parent compound, namely dibenzofuran. It was demonstrated that polarizability anisotropy and mean polarizability could change sensitively and systematically with chlorine number and substitution pattern. And new quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSARs) focused on the binding affinities of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase (AHH) and 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase (EROD) induction potencies of PCDFs were developed. It was concluded that polarizability anisotropy in conjunction with hyperpolarizabilties and hyper-order electric moments, e.g. octupole moments could well interpret the variation of toxicity of different congeners and dispersion interaction should be the leading form among various interactions. Although the terms of hyperpolarizabilities and hyper-order electric moments were not the same significant ones as polarizability anisotropy, the long-range interactions characterized by them should not be ignored in explaining the toxicity. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper focuses on the design of fishlike underwater robots using an optimization approach to choose relative link lengths. Considering both ichthyologic characteristics and mechatronic constraints, the optimal link-length ratios are numerically calculated by an improved constrained cyclic variable method. Comparative results, before and after the optimization, demonstrate the enhanced performance.
The objective of this article is to recapitulate our experience in aligning large anatomical ontologies (Foundational Model of Anatomy, GALEN, Adult Mouse Anatomical Dictionary and NCI Thesaurus) having different representation formalisms. Our approach to aligning concepts (directly) is automatic, rule-based, and operates at the schema level, generating mostly point-to-point mappings. It uses a combination of lexical, structural and semantic techniques. It also takes advantage of domain-specific knowledge (lexical knowledge from external resources, such ay the Unified Medical Language System, as well as knowledge augmentation and inference techniques). In addition to point-to-point mapping of concepts, we present the alignment of relationships and the mapping of concepts group-to-group. We have also successfully tested an indirect alignment through a reference ontology. We present an evaluation of our techniques, both against a gold standard and against a generic schema matching system. The advantages and limitations of our approach arc, analyzed and discussed throughout the article.
rA recurrent neural network for the optimal control of a group of interconnected dynamic systems is presented in this paper. On the basis of decomposition and coordination strategy for interconnected dynamic systems, the proposed neural network has a two-level hierarchical structure: several local optimization subnetworks at the lower level and one coordination subnetwork at the upper level. A goal-coordination method is used to coordinate the interactions between the subsystems. By nesting the dynamic equations of the subsystems into their corresponding local optimization subnetworks, the number of dimensions of the neural network can be reduced significantly. Furthermore, the subnetworks at both the lower and upper levels can work concurrently. Therefore, the computation efficiency, in comparison with the consecutive executions of numerical algorithms on digital computers, is increased dramatically. The proposed method is extended to the case where the control inputs of the subsystems are bounded. The stability analysis shows that the proposed neural network is asymptotically stable. Finally, an example is presented which demonstrates the satisfactory performance of the neural network.
Requirements for high efficiency in manufacturing, while pushing the development of key equipment, need high-performance maintenance as a safeguard. Internet-related techniques are enabling remote monitoring and maintenance to extend beyond local areas. Considering the need for software architecture with openness and interchangeability for flexible selection and replacement of data analysis techniques, this research develops a standardized mufti-layer platform using Web Services, realizing data transmission among networks. The independence between the software platform and data analysis guarantees their research and development in parallel. Studies were done on nonlinear-data-analysis techniques, such as wavelet neural networks for fault diagnostics, particle filters for estimates, and support vector regression for condition prediction. These studies were included in a comprehensive application. The experimental results support condition-based maintenance for key equipment.
Artificial neural networks (ANNs) have been widely applied to finance and economic forecasting as a powerful modeling technique. By reviewing the related literature, we discuss the input variables, type of neural network models, performance comparisons for the prediction of foreign exchange rates, stock market index and economic growth. Economic fundamentals are important in driving exchange rates, stock market index price and economic growth. Most neural network inputs for exchange rate prediction are univariate, while those for stock market index prices and economic growth predictions are multivariate in most cases. There are mixed comparison results of forecasting performance between neural networks and other models. The reasons may be the difference of data, forecasting horizons, types of neural network models and so on. Prediction performance of neural networks can be improved by being integrated with other technologies. Nonlinear combining forecasting by neural networks also provides encouraging results.
A simplified, cost-effective flexible micro-electronic-mechanical systems (MEMS) technology has been developed for realizing a temperature-sensing array on a flexible polyimide substrate. The fabrication technique utilized liquid polyimide to form flexible film on the rigid silicon wafer using a temporary carrier during the fabrication. The platinum thin film is employed as temperature sensitive material and 8 x 8 temperature-sensing arrays were micromachined on the polyimide, from which the silicon wafer carrier was removed at the end of fabrication. The platinum thin film temperature sensor exhibits excellent linearity and its temperature coefficient of resistance reaches 0.00291 degrees C-1. Because of the effective thermal isolation, the flexible temperature sensors show a high sensitivity of 1.12 ohm/degrees C at 10 mA to the constant drive current. The flexible MEMS technology based on liquid polyimide enables the development of flexible, compliant, robust, and multi-modal sensor skins for many other important applications, such as robotics, biomedicine, and wearable microsystems. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The particle swarm optimization algorithm was showed to converge rapidly during the initial stages of a global search, but around global optimum, the search process will become very slow. On the contrary, the gradient descending method can achieve faster convergent speed around global optimum, and at the same time, the convergent accuracy can be higher. So in this paper, a hybrid algorithm combining particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm with back-propagation (BP) algorithm, also referred to as PSO-BP algorithm, is proposed to train the weights of feedforward neural network (FNN), the hybrid algorithm can make use of not only strong global searching ability of the PSOA, but also strong local searching ability of the BP algorithm. In this paper, a novel selection strategy of the inertial weight is introduced to the PSO algorithm. In the proposed PSO-BP algorithm, we adopt a heuristic way to give a transition from particle swarm search to gradient descending search. In this paper, we also give three kind of encoding strategy of particles, and give the different problem area in which every encoding strategy is used. The experimental results show that the proposed hybrid PSO-BP algorithm is better than the Adaptive Particle swarm optimization algorithm (APSOA) and BP algorithm in convergent speed and convergent accuracy. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
An artificial neural network (ANN) technique is applied to predict the wear properties of polymer-matrix composites. Based on an experimental database for short fiber reinforced polyamide 4.6 composites, the specific wear rate, frictional coefficient and furthermore some mechanical properties, such as compressive strength and modulus, were successfully calculated by a well-trained ANN. 3-D plots for the predicted wear and mechanical characteristics as a function of material compositions and testing conditions were established. The results are in good agreement with measured data. It shows that the prediction accuracy is reasonable, and the network has potential to be improved if the experimental database for network training could be expanded. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we consider a leader-following consensus problem of a group of autonomous agents with time-varying coupling delays. Two different cases of coupling topologies are investigated. At first, a necessary and sufficient condition is proved in the case when the interconnection topology is fixed and directed. Then a sufficient condition is proposed in the case when the coupling topology is switched and balanced. Numerical examples are also given to illustrate our results. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Neural units with higher-order synaptic operations have good computational properties in information processing and control applications. This paper presents neural units with higher-order synaptic operations for visual image processing applications. We use the neural units with higher-order synaptic operations for edge detection and employ the Hough transform to process the edge detection results. The edge detection method based on the neural unit with higher-order synaptic operations has been applied to solve routing problems of mobile robots. Simulation results show that the proposed neural units with higher-order synaptic operations are efficient for image processing and routing applications of mobile robots.
To perform hydrological forecasting, time series methods are often employed. In univariate time series, the autoregressive integrated moving average (ARIMA) model, the seasonal autoregressive moving average (SARMA) model, the deseasonalized model and the periodic autoregressive (PAR) model. are often used. These models are based on the assumption that the influence of tagged riverflows on the riverflow is linear. In reality the assumption is often questionable. In this paper, the functional-coefficient autoregression (FCAR) model, which is a nonlinear model, is introduced to forecast riverflows. To explore the influence of the inflow on the outflow in a river system and to exploit the internal interaction of the outflows, bivariate time series models are needed. The transfer function (TF) model and the semi-parametric regression (SPR) model are often employed. In this paper, a new model, the non-parametric and functional-coefficient autoregression (NFCAR) model, is proposed. It consists of two parts: the first part, the non-parametric part explains the influences of the inflows on the outflow in a river system; the second part, the functional-coefficient linear part reveals the interactions among the outflows in a river system. By comparing the calibration and forecasting of the models, it is found that the NFCAR model performs very well. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has been widely practiced and is considered as an attractive to conventional medicine. Multi-herb recipes have been routinely used in TCM. These have been formulated by using TCM-defined herbal properties (TCM-HPs), the scientific basis of which is unclear. The usefulness of TCM-HPs was evaluated by analyzing the distribution pattern of TCM-HPs of the constituent herbs in 1161 classical TCM prescriptions, which shows patterns of multi-herb correlation. Two artificial intelligence (AI) methods were used to examine whether TCM-HPs are capable of distinguishing TCM prescriptions from non-TCM recipes. Two AI systems were trained and tested by using 1161 TCM prescriptions, 11,202 non-TCM recipes, and two separate evaluation methods. These systems correctly classified 83.1-97.3% of the TCM prescriptions, 90.8-92.3% of the non-TCM recipes. These results suggest that TCM-HPs are capable of separating TCM prescriptions from non-TCM recipes, which are useful for formulating TCM prescriptions and consistent with the expected correlation between TCM-HPs and the physicochemical properties of herbal ingredients responsible for producing the collective pharmacological and other effects of specific TCM prescriptions. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.
In order to evaluate the precision of hyperspectral reflectance model for monitoring soybean leaf area index (LAI), Soybean canopy reflectance data collected with ASD spectroradiometers (350 similar to 1050nm), which were cultivated in water-fertilizer coupled control conditions, and soybean LAI were collected simultaneously with LI-COR LAI-2000. First, correlation between reflectance, derivative reflectance against soybean LAI were conducted; secondly, five vegetation indices with reflectance at band 801mn and 670nm were applied to regresses against soybean LAI; finally, ANN-BP established for soybean LAI estimation with changeable nodes in hidden layers. It were found that soybean canopy reflectance show a negative correlation with soybean LAI, while it show a positive correlation with soybean LAI in near infrared region. Reflectance derivative have an intimate relation with soybean LAI in blue, green and red edge spectral region, and got maximum correlation coefficient in red edge region. All five vegetation indices have intimate correlation with soybean LAI, with regression determination coefficient R-2 ranged in 0.84 and 0.88. ANN-BP model can greatly improve soybean LAI estimation accuracy. Determination coefficient (R-2 = 0.92) obtained with 2 nodes in hidden layers, however, R2 still can be improved with nodes in hidden layers increasing, and R-2 = 0.96 with 8 nodes in hidden layers. Still, it should be noticed that without indecent phonological soybean data participate model establishing, ANN-BP model can improve estimation accuracy with large room, and Determination coefficient (R-2 = 0.98) can be obtained with 8 nodes in hidden layers. By above analysis, it indicated that, ANN-BP model can be applied to in-situ collected hyperspectral data for vegetation LAI estimation with quite accurate prediction, and in the future, ANN-BP model still should be applied to hyperspectral data for other vegetation biophysical and biochemical parameters estimation.
A novel method based on vibration-mode of the atomic force microscope (AFM) for nanoimaging and nanomanipulation is introduced in this paper. With this approach, the amplitude of OMSPV (opto-electronic measurement signal of probe vibration) can be used as a feedback signal to detect and control the operation state under vibration-mode. By controlling the amplitude of AFM probe, the tip-sample interaction force can be sufficiently adjusted. Therefore, vibration-mode of AFM system can be used to manipulate nano-entities just as in using the standard contact-mode manipulation strategy. Using the novel method, nanoimaging and nanomanipulation could both be performed in vibration-mode, and the damages of the sample and probe tip can be reduced significantly. Furthermore, by detecting the amplitude of OMSPV change during operation, the precise position information between the probe tip and nano-entities (e.g., CNTs) can be determined automatically as well. Experiments show that the amplitude of OMSPV will be in USPV (unstable state of probe vibration) when the tip is at the edge of CNTs due to the real-time adjustment of parameters of the AFM control system. Such USPV can be used to determine whether the manipulation succeeds in real-time. The correlative analysis and signal processing method is also presented in the paper.
After much initial controversy over the past 20 years, the mechanism of charge-transfer in DNA is now moving towards a consensus view in the chemistry community that the dominant charge-transfer mechanism appears to be distance-dependent coherent tunnelling through unit-step and weak-distance-dependent thermal hopping through multi-step. Contrary to the consensus in the chemistry society, the problem of whether DNA is conducting or insulating remains to be hotly debated among physics groups due to the disparate experimental results varying from conductor to insulator. The study of DNA electronic properties requires an efficient way to accurately position and individually manipulate DNA molecules. The recent development of Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) based nano-robotics seems to be a promising solution. In this research, the DNA molecules are positioned onto a pair of electrodes by a nano-robotic tool. The electrical properties of DNA are studied under controlled conditions.
A novel hybrid learning algorithm to implement automatically structure identification and parameter optimization for designing a self-organizing TSK-Type fuzzy neural network (FNN) is proposed in this paper. It includes mean shift clustering algorithm (MSC) and mean firing strength method (MFS) which are employed to identify the network structure of fuzzy neural network (FNN) and the particle swarm optimization enhancing genetic algorithm (PSO-EGA) and the modified back-propagation algorithm (MBP) which are applied to learn the free parameters of it. That is, the MSC is used to partition the input vector space to generate initial network structure. Then the MFS is used to prune the least important rule neurons of initial structure and generate optimal network structure. After the structure identification is completed, the PSO-EGA is adopted to perform a global search in free parameter space of the FNN and seek a near-optimal initial free parameters point for the next stage. Then, it is considered as the initial weights of the FNN and the MBP is used to perform the learning process until a terminal condition is satisfied. The simulation experiment has verified that the proposed hybrid learning algorithm achieves superior performance in learning accuracy than those of some traditional methods.
This paper introduce the development of a monitoring system to depth of anaesthesia in a surgery. We first developed the Audiory Evoked Potential (AEP) method and the bispectrium method. Then we combined them together using a off-line trained neural networks. The preliminary results show that our calculated index is closely relative to the depth of anaesthesia.
The paper proposed a method for a quadruped robot control system based Central Pattern Generator (CPG) and fuzzy neural networks (FNN). The common approach for the control of a quadruped robot includes two methods mainly. One is the CPG that is based the bionics, the other is the dynamic control that is based the model of quadruped robot. The control result of CPG is decided by the gait data of the quadruped and the parameters of the CPG are choosing manually. Modeling a quadruped robot is difficult because it is a high nonlinear system. This paper presents a much simpler method for the control of a quadruped robot. A simple CPG is adopted for a timing oscillator; it generates the motion periodic pattern of legs. The FNN is used to control the joint motion in order to get a desired stable trajectory motion.
We consider the decentralized control for a class of auto-regression models with exogenous inputs (ARX models). A stochastic time-averaged group-tracking-like performance index is adopted for each agent, with which the individual and population average states are coupled nonlinearly. A decentralized control law is designed based on the estimate of the population average state an the Nash certainty equivalence principle. By probability limit theory, it is shown that: 1) the estimate of the population average state is strongly consistent. 2) the closed-loop system is almost surely uniformly stable, and bounded independently of the number of agents. 3) when the nonlinear coupling function in the indexes is globally Lipschitz continuous, the decentralized control law is asymptotically optimal almost surely; when locally Lipschitz continuous, the control law is asymptotically optimal in probability.
In this paper, we present a new thermo therapy of tumor control algorithm, in which a self-regulation factor is adopted to realize real-time temperature control with high-precision fuzzy controller. This method can not only realize the real-time control with ignoring influence of impedance parameters, but also enhance the stability and dynamic characteristics of the control system, and the performance of the radio-frequency thermo therapeutic equipment is enhanced. We have demonstrated this strategy is feasible and effective based on the experiment researches of liver tumor thermo therapy.
A novel energy-optimized control strategy for induction motors based on the advanced nonintrusive efficiency estimation is proposed in this paper. The two enabling techniques for the efficiency estimation are spectral estimation that detects rotor speed from rotor slot harmonics in the stator current and accurate signal-injection-based stator resistance estimation. For the implementation of the control strategy, Fuzzy logic control is used to process the efficiency estimate feedback. The simulation result is presented to verify the proposed control.
This paper considers the stability of switched linear systems. Assume a common weak quadratic Lyapunov function exists and the switches satisfy certain ergodic property, we investigate two extensions of LaSalle's invariance principle. Unlike most existing results, the systems we investigated may have switching modes, which are not asymptotically stable. An application to the consensus of multi-agent systems is presented.
This paper considers the problem of consensus of multiple agents with dynamically changing interaction topologies. It is shown that a multi-agent system can achieve consensus asymptotically if the union of the directed interaction graphs is weakly connected frequently enough as the system evolves. To establish convergence condition of consensus, some new concepts and properties of graphs have been proposed and revealed. To see the strength of this new condition, some existed consensus convergence conditions have been shown to be special cases of our result.
Four different nonlinear filters are used to estimate both states and time-varying slipping parameters of the created kinematic model of a tracked vehicle. The first filter is the well-known extended Kalman filter. The second filter is a recent development of unscented version of the Kalman filter. The third one is a particle filter using the unscented Kalman filter to generate the importance proposal distribution. The last one is a novel and guaranteed filter that use a linear set-membership estimator and can give an ellipsoid set in which the true state lies. The four different approaches have different complexities, behavior and advantages that are compared in simulations.
This paper presents a new scatheless platform for training remote-controlled animal robot, which can be used to analyze the relations between electrical stimulation and animal behavior. It will not only provide a convenient platform and method to research the controllability of animal behavior and the possibility of training animal robots, but also open new possibilities for biomedical, artificial intelligence and cognitive science researches. This system consists of two parts: 1) multichannel remote-controlled stimulator backed by animal; 2) computer vision based animal motion-analysis system. The training results showed that the platform works accurately even under interference conditions.
The chatting robot we developing is a concept which talks with people in an informal manner. It consists at least three modules, including automatic speech natural language matching and speech synthesis. In this we focused on the module of natural language matching produces response to any given sentences. Firstly, we the input sentence from speech recognition module. Then best concept sentence which may represent the meaning of sentence is formed under certain mapping rules. Finally, based the concept sentence, a response sentence can be produced. input sentence is mapped to some concept sentences to keywords and properties of part-of-speech. For the characteristics of spoken Chinese, it is important to evaluate whole concept sentence. With training samples, the weights different part-of-speech arc obtained by orthogonal method. Experiment results have positively demonstrated feasibility of the proposed approach and validation of such chatting system.
Snake-like robots exhibited more advantages than conventional mobile robots on environment adaptation. They almost can move in most ill conditions including rough terrain, desert, water, cave and tree. In this paper, a 3D snake-like robot called Perambulator-II (Shenyang Institute of Automation Snake-like robot 11) is developed with the acquirement of powerful propulsion and high mobility. The unit of snake-like robot Perambutator-II robot named as Modular Universal Unit (MUU) is introduced, which behaves three DOFs with a series of passive rollers around its cylinder body. Also, some considerations on mechanism design of snake-like robots are presented. And the shell shape of 3D snake-like robot according to mobility is discussed in detail. The locomotion of Perambulator-H is presented for test its performance. The experimental results ire given to validate the mobility of the snake-like robot Perambulator-II.
This paper presents a three-dimensional (3-D) dynamic model for free-swimming, flexible multi-link robots using Schiehlen method within the framework of multi-body dynamics. The swimming robots, like robotic fish and robotic dolphin, consist of a sequence of propulsive modules in series, which propels itself via undulatory/oscillatory locomotion and performs up-and-down motion. by artificial pectoral fins. Mechanically, this robotic configuration is simply considered as an open, tree-structured multi-body system. The expressions for the hydrodynamic forces and momentums on the moving modules are based on quasi-steady hydrodynamics and oscillatory foil theory, and these are coupled with kinematic and dynamic analyses to derive complete dynamic equations in a form suited for controller design and computer simulation. The matching results between simulation with experimental results on a four-link, multi-mode robotic fish show good agreement, which partially demonstrates the validity of the proposed model and the potential of its use for other flexible links based robots.
A telestimulation system is described that enables on experimenter to train animal robots remotely. The system consists of three separate components: a transmitter base station hat is controlled by a PC operator, a multi-channel remote controlled stimulator backed by animal, and a computer vision based animal motion-analysis system. This system enables multi-channel brain and body stimulation experiments in freely moving animals, and training experiments have done to rats, rabbits and dogs, which shows that the telestimulation system works accurately even under interference condition. Rat-robots and rabbit-robots have been trained successfully with our new animal robot training method, which integrates both sound cue and electrical stimulation. A beagle is training now to be a dog-robot, and more animal robot prototypes will come into being soon.
The laser welding flexible manufacturing system (LWFMS) is a complex flexible manufacturing system which contains several robots and several workstations. In order to ensure the laser welding quality, an effective control model with intelligence is necessary. Based on the characteristics of the laser welding manufacturing system, a multi-agent system model has been built upon this system. The built model consists of three levels: the higher level, the middle level and the lower level. The production supervisory agent in the higher level manages the other level's agents. The middle layer consists of task management agent and system monitor agent which assign the tasks received from the high level to the lower agents. The lower level composes of exertion agents. The model proposed in this paper enhances the intelligence of the laser welding system and ensures the welding quality.
This paper mainly focuses on the modelling of the frequency output and evaluating the performance of the high precision humidity and temperature sensor which is designed for a wireless sensor network based on a kind of neural networks. Firstly, some backgrounds of neural networks and the sensor are described, and then, the two problems in the design of the sensor are given. Secondly, the possibility of solving the two problems using neural networks is given. Thirdly, in order to solve the two problems, a kind of three-layer multilayer perceptrons (MLP) networks is constructed to testify the new modelling method. Finally, experiment results are presented to show the feasibilities and effectiveness of the neural networks method.
This paper presents the latest result regarding the unification of minimum-energy redundancy resolution of robot manipulators via a quadratic program. The presented quadratic programming (QP) formulation is general in the sense that it incorporates equality, inequality and bound constraints, simultaneously. This QP formulation covers the online avoidance of joint physical limits and environmental obstacles, as well as the optimization of various performance indices. Every term is endowed with clear physical meaning and utility. Motivated by the real-time solution to such robotic problems, four QP online solvers are briefly reviewed. That is, standard QP optimization routines, compact QP method, dual neural network as a QP solver, and state-of-the-art LVI-based primal-dual neural network as a QP solver. The QP-based unification of robots' redundancy resolution is substantiated by a large number of computer simulation results based on PUMA560, PA10, and planar robot arms.
Intelligent systems for condition monitoring, alarm diagnosis and fault detection have been widely used in modern industrial manufacturing, as they are capable of providing more efficient decision making support. This paper proposes a distributed intelligent monitoring system based on the embedded technology. Using advanced RISC machines microprocessor embedded with a real-time multi-task micro kernel, the developed system possesses the functions such as data acquisition, signal preprocessing, mass storage, realtime monitoring, and remote intelligent control. In virtue of a wireless CDMA communication network, it is especially appropriate to be applied to the circumstance where building a wired network is not feasible. Design and implementation about the hardware and software of the system are presented in detail. The high performance, reliability and security of the system have been validated in the case of remote intelligent monitoring system in industrial oil exploration and production. Due to its flexible structures of both software and hardware, the developed system is easy to be adapted to other applications.
In recent years, the Internet-based teleoperation control has become a research focus. Compared with single robot, multi-robot system can be applied to many fields. It has the ability to complete the complicated tasks more rapidly and effectively. The combination form of the Internet-based multi-robot teleoperation system has attracted the widespread attention. However, due to the existence of the random time-delay, it is difficult for the robots to obtain the real-lime operation commands. This may seriously decrease the stability and reliability of the system. Properly increasing the local-autonomy of the telerobots under the human operation via the Internet is an effective way. In this paper, a neural group network approach to autonomous behavior selection and coordination is proposed. It is capable of controlling a group of Internet-based mobile telerobots to achieve multiple tasks automatically when data transmission is failed. The architecture of the Internet-based multi-robot teleoperation system and a neural group network controller model are presented. Then, we describe the behavior coordination process based on the selective strategy. The validity of our approach is demonstrated on the Internet-based telerobot soccer system by simulation experiments. The results and future work are described in the end.
Different versions of biomimetic robotic fish mimicking undulating fins of Black Ghost Knifefish have been designed and developed. To mimic the actual flexible fin of real fish, an optimized fin-like propulsion mechanism is modelled with a series of connecting linkages for enhancing its propulsive performance. Motion studies for optimizing the undulating fins design have been conducted. Workspace and locomotion of the fin mechanism are derived and the parametric study of the locomotion is presented. With these studies, an optimal design providing the best workspace, which can drive the highest possible amplitude, have been developed. The manoeuvrability and buoyancy control can be achieved by the integration of mechatronics design of a buoyancy module with the undulating fin. The design philosophy of modularity was incorporated into the design of the fish. Hence, the modularity of the prototypes not only provides versatility for the robot system and also facilitates in the maintenance and future development of fish with undulating fins/body, as new modules can be added to replace the existing modules easily. By reconfiguring the components of NKF-II, other version of robotic fish with undulating fins/body is derived. This evolution of the undulating fins is also discussed.
Internet based tele-operation systems utilize the ubiquitous connectivity and low cost bandwidth offered by the Internet to send commands and receive friendly feedback for tele-operating remote systems. In many scenarios for efficiency and task completion, the tactic coordination of human-machine and multi-robots are required. For this to be feasible there are several hurdles to be crossed including Internet type delays, uncertainties in the environment and uncertainties in the object manipulated. This paper proposes a general event-based adaptive tele-operation control mechanism that integrates machine learning to deal with such uncertainties. The mechanism was tested by experiments in tele-operation soccer robots system powered by the Hybrid Q-learning and the experimental results that confirmed this mechanism are presented.
The inertial and visual sensors are popular sensors on board for robots. The combination of inertial and visual information is helpful to estimate the pose of a robot robustly. In this paper, a new sensing system with inertial and active visual sensors is proposed. A hierarchical fusion strategy is suggested. And a pose estimation method with optimization fusion is presented, which takes image features as constraints to optimize inertial parameters. It has the potential to estimate the pose faster and more accurate. Simulations are also provided in order to assess the proposed integration method conveniently.
A mobile robot with three links on which the passive wheels are fixed is presented in this paper. This robot can move with two formation decided by the different connection between links and body of robot. This link is si type of joint mechanism called modular universal unit(MUU). The MUU behaves Pitching, Yawing and Rolling D.O.F. A series of passive rollers around the cylindrical aluminum shell of MUU form an actuating wheel for mobile robot. The communication and replacement are feasible due to high integration of MUU. The mobile robot consisting of three MUUs can move by winding the links or by driving links to rotate. The kinematic analysis of this robot is given to show its performance on mobility. Finally, some locomotion simulations are given to show characteristic of robots.
This paper describes the design, construction, and performance analysis of an adjustable Scotch yoke mechanism mimicking the dorsoventral movement for dolphin-like robots. Since dolphins propel themselves by vertical oscillations following a sinusoidal path with alterable amplitudes, a two-motor-driven Scotch yoke mechanism is adopted as the main propulsor to generate sinusoidal oscillations, where leading screw mechanism and rack and pinion mechanism actuated by the minor motor are incorporated to independently change the length of the crank actuated by the major motor. Meanwhile, the output of the Scotch yoke, i.e., reciprocating motion, is converted into the up-and-down oscillation via rack and gear transmission. A motion control scheme based on the novel Scotch yoke is then formed and applied to achieve desired propulsion. Preliminary tests in a robotics context finally confirm the feasibility of the developed mechanism in mechanics and propulsion.
As another kind of the biomimetic underwater vehicles, a biologically inspired robotic turtle is studied and modeled. The modular design philosophy and construction of the prototype after a family of sea turtle - Cheloniidae is discussed. The dual-purpose robotic turtle is designed to imitate locomotion behaviors of Cheloniidae, both in water and on the land to achieve amphibian operations. Our motivation is to improve the design and performance of amphibian vehicles, which will have the reasonable speed and stable swimming ability like turtles. Studies have shown the high effectiveness of the turtle's underwater locomotion, whose thrust generated by the Rapping foil-like flippers. The crawling and lift-based swimming gaits are analyzed and implemented on the prototype. The platform is being developed for the testing to be conducted in outdoor real environment.
The paper proposed combining traditional quadtrees and framed-quadtrees with the shunting equation based neural network model to improve the efficiency of path planning. The introduction of quadtrees is used for improving the efficiency of the trajectory generation and enlarging the representation capability of maps, especially in sparse environments. And the introduction of framed-quadtree is used for the generation of Euclidean shortest paths. The introduction of quadtrees and framed-quadtrees does not change the structure of the neural network model based on the shunting model; so the stability and the convergence of the neural network were reserved. And the feature that a map can be represented by quadtrees with multi-resolution was betaken to simplify the selection of parameters in the neural network model. Theoretical analyses and Simulation studies of the proposed method were done to demonstrate following conclusions: the Euclidean shortest paths can be generated without collision and without much computational complexity; the improved neural network method does not suffer from undesired local minima; the proposed method can generate shorter collision free trajectory and has bigger representation capabilities of maps.
In this paper, a neural network approach named shortest path neural networks (SP-NN) is proposed for real-time on-line path planning. Based on grid-based map and mapping this kind of map to neural networks, this proposed method is capable of generating the globally shortest path from the target position to the start position without collision with any obstacles. The dynamics of each neuron is distinctive to other previously presented methods by other researchers and ensures that the generated path is shortest without collision and that the state of neurons varied continuously. Extensive simulations show the efficiency of the presented method.
Localization is one of important functions in Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs). And Data fusion is commonly regarded as an efficient method that can improve precision of localization. The paper proposed a novel method based on nonparametric estimation techniques and Radial Basis Function (RBF) Neural Networks to decrease the indeterminacy of Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA) and Received Signal Strength Indicator (RSSI) measurements. The different sources of errors for each measurement types cause that the Probability Density Functions (PDFs) of measurements are not completely dependent. So, theoretically, the fusion of the two kinds of measurements could be effective. Nonparametric estimation techniques are introduced to resolve the problem that measurements do not completely submit to a known PDF. And RBF networks can partly eliminate the influence of environments by regulation of weights. The paper theoretically demonstrated that the data fusion based on RBF networks could achieve location estimation with the Minimum Mean Square Error (MMSE). After that, simulation results of the classical linear combination method and the single RBF fusion were compared with the proposed method in the paper to demonstrate that the proposed method can improve precision of localization with a little of increment in complexion and is robust to the variance of environments.
In order to acquire the interaction force between fingers of robot and the grasped object more accurately, this paper develops a kind of novel multi-dimension finger force sensor used in robots. This sensor uses double E-type diaphragm structure, according to the characteristic of force bearing and different bridge connection modes, it solves contradiction between the microminiatured of the multi-dimension finger force sensor and elastic body structure design, stain gauge arrangement, bridge connection modes. Experiments are conducted with the developed multi-dimension finger force sensor, and the results show this sensor has simple structure, good linearity, low coupling between dimensions and easy calibration characteristics.
Wheeled mobile robots are increasingly being utilized in unknown and dangerous situations such as lunar surface exploration. Velocity estimation is of importance for lunar rovers to autonomously navigate and successfully traverse on rough terrains. The dynamic effects occurring at the wheel-terrain interface such as wheel slips make it difficult to real-time estimate the rover's velocity only by position-measurement sensors. Effective acceleration sensor data are hard to observe since lunar rovers usually move at a very slow speed. This paper proposes a kinematics-based method for velocity estimation of lunar rovers by using wheel encoders and gyro measurements. Treating the lunar rover with passively compliant mechanisms as a series-parallel multi-body system, we can directly build the whole kinematics model based on closed velocity chain theory. The wheel-terrain physical contact and wheel slips involving rolling slip, side slip and turning slip are also investigated. The forward velocity calculation is achieved based on solving kinematics of the rover. Low-accuracy gyro signals are modelled as a stochastic procedure and processed with the standard Kalman filter. Physical experimental results of gyro signals filtering and velocity estimation are given to show the validity and usefulness of the methods. This kinematics-based velocity estimation method can be easily performed based on on-board sensors with low system cost.
A kinematic model of tracked vehicles is established in this paper, in which both longitudinal and lateral slipping is considered and processed as three time-varying parameters. Unscented Kalman filter is then introduced to real time estimate the pose and slipping parameters jointly. A stable tracking control law for this nonholonomic system is proposed and the asymptotic stability is guaranteed by Lyapunov theory. Simulation results show the efficiency and robustness of the proposed method.
The trend of ocean exploitation puts forward higher requirements for automatic vehicles, while navigation module has been the development constraint for underwater robots. NATURE reported that some sea-turtles recur to geomagnetic "map" for navigation. Although the concrete mechanism has not been made clear yet, this still offers some cue to underwater navigation research. Now bionic researches reckon that matching is one very-possible positioning mode in this subject. Simultaneously remote sensing image processing techniques also supply some inspiration. Its traditional iterative closest point (ICP) algorithm for image registration can be transplanted for location determination. Combined with inertial navigation system (INS) which is as common navigation kernel, this paper emphasizes on how to modify and improve ICP algorithm according to underwater geomagnetic condition. Related aspects such as hunting window concluded from INS and closest points' quick-searching by stepwise extrapolation are also analyzed for the integrity of the proposed method above. The algorithm's applicability is concluded mathematically from the transformation relationship between INS's parameters and related real ones. Then simulation experiments for validation of the proposed algorithm's effectiveness, which is based on the real geomagnetic reference data, are carried out.
This paper presents the design of an optimal controller which is applied to control the actuator force of the semi-active vibration isolator in order to suppress vibration effectively. The controller design technique is based on dual heuristic dynamic programming (DHP), which is one of the structures in adaptive dynamic programming (ADP). Least mean square (LMS) algorithm is applied to the learning rules of the action network and the critic network. The update equations for the weights based on backpropagation algorithm are illustrated in detail. A single-stage training process is also demonstrated as a useful training strategy. Two types of vibrations are utilized to verify the effectiveness of this control design. Simulation results show that, compared with the passive system, the semi-active vibration isolator can significantly improve the system's performances in acceleration, velocity and displacement.
A novel hybrid learning algorithm which automates the design of the FNNs is proposed in this paper. It is based on two-stage learning process. First, mean shift clustering (MSC) and mean firing strength (MFS) are combined to identify the structure. The MSC is used to generate the initial network structure and parameters of each neuron and MFS refines the initial network to produce the optimal network structure. Next, genetic algorithm enhancing chaotic particle swarm optimization (GA-ECPSO) and modified back-propagation (MBP) are proposed to learn the free parameters. The GA-ECPSO is used to seek the near-optimal parameters solution and MBP continues the learning process until the terminal condition is satisfied. The simulation experiment demonstrates the superior performance of the algorithm.
A novel hybrid learning algorithm for designing a TSK-Type recurrent fuzzy neural network (RFNN) is proposed in this paper. The whole designing process includes two stages, i.e., structure identification and parameter optimization. The structure identification includes mean shift clustering (MSC) and mean firing strength (MFS). The MSC is used to partition the input space and the mean firing strength (MFS) is employed to prune the redundant rule neurons. After the structure identification is performed, we adopt the PSO to adjust the free parameters of the RFNN and generate the near-optimal free parameters solution. Then, MBP is used to continue the learning process until the terminal condition is satisfied. The proposed hybrid learning algorithm achieves superior performance in learning accuracy.
This paper presents a new approach based on HMM/ANN hybrid for online signature verification. A group of ANNs are used as local probability estimators for an HMM. The Viterbi algorithm is employed to work out the global posterior probability of a model. The proposed HMM/ANN hybrid has a strong discriminant ability, i.e, from a local sense, the ANN can be regarded as an efficient classifier, and from a global sense, the posterior probability is consistent with that of a Bayes classifier. Finally, the experimental results show that this approach is promising and competing.
A recurrent neural network is proposed for solving non-smooth nonlinear programming problems, which can be regarded as a generalization of the smooth nonlinear programming neural network used in [1]. Based on the non-smooth analysis and the theory of differential inclusions, the proposed neural network is demonstrated to be globally convergent to the exact optimal solution of the original optimization problem. Compared with the existing neural networks, the proposed approach takes both equality and inequality constraints into account, and no penalty parameters have to be estimated beforehand. Therefore, it can solve a larger class of non-smooth programming problems. Finally, several illustrative examples are given to show the effectiveness of the proposed neural network.
Many computational methods have been proposed for inference of protein-protein interactions as protein-protein interaction plays an important role in many cellular processes. One of methods is to infer protein-protein interactions based on domain-domain interactions, and the preliminary results have represented their feasibility. In this paper, we use the neural networks for predicting the strengths of protein interaction. This method is capable of exploring all possible interactions between domains and make predictions based on all the domains. Compared to expectation-maximization method and association method, the experimental results show that the proposed schemes can infer strengths of protein-protein interactions with better performances.
In this paper, we employ Probabilistic Neural Network (PNN) with image and data processing techniques to implement a general purpose automated leaf recognition for plant classification. 12 leaf features are extracted and orthogonalized into 5 principal variables which consist the input vector of the PNN. The PNN is trained by 1800 leaves to classify 32 kinds of plants with an accuracy greater than 90%. Compared with other approaches, our algorithm is an accurate artificial intelligence approach which is fast in execution and easy in implementation.
Because of the complexity of the mechanisms of redundantly actuated omni-directional Wheeled Mobile Robots (WMR), its motion regulation is a challenging problem, especially for consideration of the interaction force between the redundantly actuated wheels. The interaction force can be decomposed into motion-induced force and internal force, which are orthogonal between each other. Only the motion-induced force contributes to the motion of the robot, while the internal force abrades the wheels components, and causes the reduction of their life span. So the internal force should be eliminated or minimized. In this paper, kinematic model and dynamic model of redundantly actuated omni-directional WMR considering the interaction force is first established. A proportional differential plus motion regulator is presented. An integral feedback internal force controller is applied to minimize the internal force. Simulation results verify the effectiveness of the proposed control scheme. The robot is regulated successfully, and the internal force is reduced efficiently.
In the field of Multi-Agent System the research of speech acts is both interesting and important. In the classical theory of speech acts, the Sincerity Principle is regarded as a compulsory condition. However, the Sincerity Principle can not be guaranteed in many Multi-Agent Systems because of the existence of Res in the speech interactions among agents. This paper discusses this issue from the perspective of cognition processes of agents, gives the definition of lies based on speech acts and formalizes these contents with LOBA (Logic of Believable Agents). LOBA has extended the work of BDI logic, LORA logic and KARO logic, and introduced so-called cognitive actions which only occur in agents' minds to describe the dynamic cognition processes of believable agents.
Because the number of iterations necessary to locate the global best solution is not known a priori, it's problematic to make a proper choice of inertial weights CO and constriction coefficients l of Particle Swarm Optimization(PSO) algorithm in advance. The existing PSO algorithms are sensitive to the above two parameters. In addition, standard PSO algorithms convergence slowly and coarsely in the latter period. A new hybrid PSO algorithm is proposed to overcome the above shortcomings. The new algorithm utilizes original PSO algorithm for locating approximately a good local minimum, and then a conjugate gradient based local search is done with the best solution found by the PSO algorithm as its starting point for finding local minimum accurately. A new optimization circle begins with the accurate local minimum as global best particle. The simulation results show that the new algorithm convergences more fast and accurately than GA. It also shows better performance than GA in identifying the parameters of RBF neural networks.
A novel image recognition system is constructed by combining Wavelet invariant moments with Wavelet neural networks in this paper. Firstly, global and local features of the image can be obtained by using Wavelet invariant moments. Secondly, the invariant features are fed into Wavelet neural networks. Finally, supervised invariant pattern recognition can be achieved by utilizing three characters of Wavelet neural networks, which are the automatic ascertaining the number of hidden layer unit, converging rapidly and never running into the partial minimum of networks. The experiment results demonstrate that using Wavelet invariant moments and Wavelet neural networks can achieve higher accuracy of image classification than the algorithm based on normal invariant moments and BP neural networks.
A map building method based on wireless sensor networks (WSNs) is presented in this paper which applies the technology of WSNs to the field of mobile robots. In our scheme, a series of factors blocking the mobile robot are considered carefully and besides, multiple information is employed to develop the practicability of maps. The general used gird map is provided through our method. Extensive simulations show that the presented method has a relative small map building error under tolerance constraints and this method can satisfy requirements of robot localization and navigation.
Along with the great increase in credit card transactions, credit card fraud has become increasingly rampant in recent years. This study investigates the efficacy of applying classification models to credit card fraud detection problems. Three different classification methods, i.e. decision tree, neural networks and logistic regression are tested for their applicability in fraud detections. This paper provides a useful framework to choose the best model to recognize the credit card fraud risk.
Most medical images are blurry for two reasons: one is that noise signal blurs the high frequency signal of image edge, the other one is the border of tumor with normal tissues cannot be very well defined on the images, therefore it is difficult for radiology experts to delineate image. It is necessary that an approach based on fuzzy inference fusion is used for coping with these difficulties. The paper puts forward a new method for multimodal medical image fusion, that fuzzy radial basis function neural networks (Fuzzy-RBFNN) is used to perform auto-adaptive image fusion. Global genetic algorithm(GA) is employed to train the networks. In the experiments, samples sets include artificial blurred medical image. Experimental results show, comparing with other image fusion method. the proposed approach is More excellent for multimodal medical images both in visual effect of fused images and in objective evaluation criteria, especially for blurry source images.
WAPI certificate authentication protocol is the core and key component of WAPI security mechanism proposed by Chinese WLAN standard. This protocol adopts public key cryptographic technique, ASUE and AE implement the mutual identity authentication aided by their trusting third ASE to realize secure access and negotiate the corresponding BK. Using a formal logic of PCL, WAPI certificate authentication protocol is programmed and its security properties are proved. The results show that if all the entities involved in the protocol do not reveal their long-term keys or short-term keys, this protocol provides the properties of strong session authentication and key secrecy and achieves its predefined security goals.
Meta-synthesis Approach (MSA) proposed by Prof. Qian is an oriental system methodology for complex problem solving. The essential idea of MSA can be simplified as "confident hypothesizing, rigorous validating", i.e. quantitative knowledge arises from qualitative understanding. Accordingly, creative thinking as a useful and practical technique for complex problem solving, is the unity of divergent thinking and convergent thinking which appear alternatively in the whole creative process of human thinking. In this paper, a computational scheme based on MSA is applied to solve the complex problems. Firstly, group argumentation environment (GAE) as a computerized tool is used to facilitate expert divergent thinking process (meeting) on the concerned topics and form scenario or hypotheses based on qualitative MSA. Then, a quantitative evaluation model had been building to analyze the centralization of the different scenarios, which can used to measure the efficient of different argumentation scenario.
A method to simply the Generalized Regression Neural Networks (GRNN) structure with a large numbers of training samples is proposed. The amount of Pattern Units is proportionate to the training samples. So in order to simplify the GRNN's structure, some of the representative samples should be selected to build the network. This paper takes the fuzzy means clustering algorithm. It combines with a similarity measurement, which is calculated between input elements, to find the best clustering centers. According to the simulation results, this strategy can largely simply the GRNN's structure and significantly improve the network's efficiency with just a tiny of loss in accuracy. The network structure built in this strategy can learn quickly, and is suitable to deal with the problems of nonlinear system identification.
The asymptotic stability is analyzed for Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with multiple discrete delays. The boundedness, differentiability or monotonicity condition is not assumed on the activation functions. The generalized Dahlquist constant approach is employed to examine the existence and uniqueness of equilibrium of the neural networks, and a novel Lyapunov functional is constructed to investigate the stability of the delayed neural networks. New general sufficient conditions are derived for the global asymptotic stability of the neural networks with multiple delays.
Understanding and adapting to changes of customer behavior is an important aspect of surviving in a continuously changing market environment for a modem company. The concept of customer change model mining is introduced and its process is analyzed in this paper. A customer change model mining method based on swarm intelligence is presented, and the strategies of pheromone updating and items searching are given. Finally, an examination on two customer datasets of a telecom company illuminates that this method can achieve customer change model efficiently.
Inspired by cooperative transport behaviors of ants, on the basis of Q-learning, a new learning method, Neighbor-Information-Reference (NIR) learning method, is present in the paper. This is a swarm-based learning method, in which principles of swarm intelligence are strictly complied with. In NIR learning, the i-interval neighbor's information, namely its discounted reward, is referenced when an individual selects the next state, so that it can make the best decision in a computable local neighborhood. In application, different policies of NIR learning are recommended by controlling the parameters according to time-relativity of concrete tasks. NIR learning can remarkably improve individual efficiency, and make swarm more "intelligent".
The horizontal or X-Y tracking gimbal of photoelectric system has spatial blind region because of themselves framework limit, In order to solve the problem of blind region and also track object with high-precision and speediness, a new three-axis photoelectric theodolite system with collimation axis eccentricity is brought forward, It can achieve large-scale space tracking by means of mutual conversion of tracking modes.
Dynamic programming (DP) is a useful tool for solving many control problems, but for its complexity in computation, traditional DP control algorithms are riot satisfactory in fact. So we must look for a new method which not only has the advantages of DP but also is easier in computation. In this paper, approximate dynamic programming (ADP) based controller system has been used to solve a ship heading angle keeping problem. The ADP controller comprises successive adaptations of two neural networks, namely action network and critic network which approximates the Bellman equations associated with DP. The Simulation results show that the ship keeps the desired heading satisfactorily.
In a sinusoid like curve configuration, the snake-like manipulator (also called snake arm) has a wide range of potential applications for its redundancy to overcome conventional industrial robot's limitation when carrying out a complex task. It can perform many kinds of locomotion like the nature snake or the animal's tentacle to avoid obstacles, follow designated trajectories, and grasp objects. Effectively control of the snake-like manipulator is difficult for its redundancy. In this study, we propose an approach based on BP neural network to kinematic control the hyper-redundant snake-like manipulator. This approach, inspired by the Serpenoid curve and the concertina motion principle of the nature snake, is completely capable of solving the control problem of a planar snake-like manipulator with any number of links following any desired direction and trajectory. With shape transformation and base rotation, the manipulator's configuration changes accordingly and moves actively to perform the designated tasks. By using BP neural networks in modeling the inverse kinematics, this approach has such superiorities as few control parameters and high precision. Simulations have demonstrated that this control technique for the snake-like manipulator is available and effective.
The paper proposed a method for a quadruped robot control system based Central Pattern Generator (CPG) and fuzzy neural networks (FNN). The common approach for the control of a quadruped robot includes two methods mainly. One is the CPG that is based the bionics, the other is the dynamic control that is based the model of quadruped robot. The control result of CPG is decided by the gait data of the quadruped and the parameters of the CPG are choosing manually. Modeling a quadruped robot is difficult because it is a high nonlinear system. This paper presents a much simpler method for the control of a quadruped robot. A simple CPG is adopted for a tinting oscillator; it generates the motion periodic pattern of legs. The FNN is used to control the joint motion in order to get a desired stable trajectory motion.
In this paper, a novel and efficient method for recognizing palmprint based on radial basis probabilistic neural networks committee (RBPNNC) was proposed. The RBPNNC consists of several different independent neural networks trained by different feature domains of the original images. The final classification results represent a combined response of the individual networks. The Hong Kong Polytechnic University (PolyU) palmprint database is exploited to test our approach. The experimental results show that the RBPNNC achieves higher recognition accuracy and better classification efficiency than single feature domain.
This paper concerns how to compute multi-valued functions using three-layer feedforward neural networks with one hidden layer. Firstly, we define strongly and weakly symmetric functions. Then we give a network to compute a specific strongly symmetric function. The number of the hidden neurons is given and the weights are 1 or -1. Algorithm 1 modifies the weights to real numbers to compute arbitrary strongly symmetric functions. Theorem 3 extends the results to compute any multi-valued functions. Finally, we compare the complexity of our network with that of binary one. Our network needs fewer neurons.
Chou, Mannava, and Park proposed a novel method for verification of safety proper-ties of cache protocols, which is underpinned by the principle of parameter abstraction and guard strengthening. However, no one has formally proved the correctness of this method itself. In this work, we want to fill the gap in the literature. We believe that our work provides an alternative to formally justify this method. The key points of our theory are symmetry and the introduction of an intermediate guard strengthening protocol. We mechanize our theory in Isabelle/HOL.
With the large digital sky survey projects that are being carried out, photometric redshifts show their superiority compared to spectroscopic ones, and have been regarded as an essential tool for studying the large-scale structure of the universe and the formation and evolution of galaxies. In this paper, we summarize various approaches to photometric redshifts, including the Spectral Energy Distribution (SED) fitting technique, the so-called empirical method, the color-magnitude-redshift relation (CMR), artificial neural networks (ANNs), support vector machines (SVMs), etc. The performance of these techniques, as well as their advantages and disadvantages, is discussed.
This paper describes a new framework using intelligent agents for pattern recognition. Based on Jordan Curve Theorem, a universal classification method called Hyper Surface Classifier (HSC) has been studied since 2002. We propose multi-agents based technology to realize the combination of Hyper Surface Classifiers. Agents can imitate human beings' group decision to solve problems. We use two types of agents: the classifier training agent and the classifier combining agent. Each classifier training agent is responsible to read a vertical slice of the samples and train the local classifier, while the classifier combining agent is designed to combine the classification results of all the classifier training agents. The key of our method is that the sub-datasets for the classifier training agents are obtained by dividing the features rather than by dividing the sample set in distribution environment. Experimental results show that this method has a preferable performance on high dimensional datasets.
This paper thoroughly studies a control system with control allocation for a manned submersible in deep sea being developed in China. The proposed control system consists of a neural-network-based direct adaptive controller and a dynamic control allocation module. A control energy cost function is used as the optimization criteria of the control allocation module, and weighted pseudo-inverse is used to find the solution of the control allocation problem. In the presence of bounded unknown disturbance and neural networks approximation error, stability of the closed-loop control system of manned submersible is proved with Lyaponov theory. The feasibility and validity of the proposed control system is further verified through experiments conducted on a semi-physical simulation platform for the manned submersible in deep sea.
Soil samples (n = 68) in long-term fertilizer experiment zones in fengqiu ecology experimental station of chinese academy of Sciences were involved in this experiment. Partial least squares (PLS) and artificial neural network (ANN) models were developed to predict soil available P between Olsen-P and fourier transform infrared-photoacoustic (FTIR-PAS) spectra. The calibration error, validation error and calibration coefficient (R-2) from partial least square (PLS) model were 1. 79 mg/kg, 5. 25 mg/kg and 0. 96, respectively, and from the ANN model were 2. 40 mg/kg, 5. 43 mg/kg and 0. 84, respectively. The calibration statistics show these two modes can be used in the prediction of soil available P, and the prediction from PLS model is better than that from ANN model. This prediction method is non-destructive, and no pretreatment is needed, which make FTIR-PAS a promising method for fast determination of soil available P.
A method combining the support vector machine (SVM) the K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), labelled the SVM-KNN method, is used to construct a solar flare forecasting model. Based on a proven relationship between SVM and KNN, the SVM-KNN method improves the SVM algorithm of classification by taking advantage of the KNN algorithm according to the distribution of test samples in a feature space. In our flare forecast study, sunspots and 10 cm radio flux data observed during Solar Cycle 23 are taken as predictors, and whether an M class flare will occur for each active region within two days will be predicted. The SVM-KNN method is compared with the SVM and Neural networks-based method. The test results indicate that the rate of correct predictions from the SVM-KNN method is higher than that from the other two methods. This method shows promise as a practicable future forecasting model.
We calculate photometric redshifts from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 2 (SDSS DR2) Galaxy Sample using artificial neural networks (ANNs). Different input sets based on various parameters (e.g. magnitude, color index, flux information) are explored. Mainly, parameters from broadband photometry are utilized and their performances in red-shift prediction are compared. While any parameter may be easily incorporated in the input, our results indicate that using the dereddened magnitudes often produces more accurate photometric redshifts than using the Petrosian magnitudes or model magnitudes as input, but the model magnitudes are superior to the Petrosian magnitudes. Also, better performance results when more effective parameters are used in the training set. The method is tested on a sample of 79 346 galaxies from the SDSS DR2. When using 19 parameters based on the dereddened magnitudes, the rms error in redshift estimation is sigma(z) = 0.020184. The ANN is highly competitive tool compared to the traditional template-fitting methods when a large and representative training set is available.
This study proposes a novel neural-network-based fuzzy group forecasting model for foreign exchange rates prediction. In the proposed model, some single neural network models are first used as predictors for foreign exchange rates prediction. Then these single prediction results produced by each single neural network models are fuzzified into some fuzzy prediction representations. Subsequently, these fuzzified prediction representations are aggregated into a fuzzy group consensus, i.e., aggregated fuzzy prediction representation. Finally, the aggregated prediction representation is defuzzified into a crisp value as the final prediction results. For illustration and testing purposes, a typical numerical example and three typical foreign exchange rates prediction experiments are presented. Experimental results reveal that the proposed model can significantly improve the prediction performance for foreign exchange rates.
In this study, a multiscale neural network learning paradigm based on empirical mode decomposition (EMD) is proposed for crude oil price prediction. In this learning paradigm, the original price series are first decomposed into various independent intrinsic mode components (IMCs) with a range of frequency scales. Then the internal correlation structures of different IMCs are explored by neural network model. With the neural network weights, some important IMCs are selected as final neural network inputs and some unimportant IMCs that are of little use in the mapping of input to output are discarded. Finally, the selected IMCs are input into another neural network model for prediction purpose. For verification, the proposed multiscale neural network learning paradigm is applied to a typical crude oil price - West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil spot price prediction.
There are many approaches to complex problem solving, depending on the nature of the problem and the people involved in the problem. In this paper, a computational scheme based on meta-synthesis approach is applied to a social problem on exploring some issues about taxis drivers. Firstly, group argumentation environment (GAE) as a computerized too] is used to facilitate expert thinking process (meeting) about the concerned topics and form scenario or hypotheses based on qualitative meta-synthesis approach. Next, six strategies of quantitative meta-synthetic system modeling are introduced and one of that is used to construct a multi-agent model which aims to analyze the relations between taxis drivers' income and their behavior response intensity. Finally, some concluding remarks and future works are given.
Due to the complexity of economic system, the interactive effects of economic variables or factors on Chinese foreign trade make the prediction of China's foreign trade extremely difficult. To analyze the relationship between economic variables and foreign trade, this study proposes a novel nonlinear ensemble learning methodology hybridizing nonlinear econometric model and artificial neural networks (ANN) for Chinese foreign trade prediction. In this proposed learning approach, an important econometrical model, the co-integration-based error correction vector auto-regression (EC-VAR) model is first used to capture the impacts of the economic variables on Chinese foreign trade from a multivariate analysis perspective. Then an ANN-based EC-VAR model is used to capture the nonlinear patterns hidden between foreign trade and economic factors. Subsequently, for introducing the effects of irregular events on foreign trade, the text mining and expert's judgmental adjustments are also incorporated into the nonlinear ANN-based EC-VAR model. Finally, all economic variables, the outputs of linear and nonlinear EC-VAR models and judgmental adjustment model are used as another neural network inputs for ensemble prediction purpose. For illustration, the proposed ensemble learning methodology integrating econometric techniques and artificial intelligence (AI) methods is applied to Chinese export trade prediction problem.
Computer-based systems, especially multi-agent systems which incorporate multi-agents physically distributed, can be represented as event structures. We propose an action-based event structure logic which is an appropriate approach specifying the action behaviors that cause states change. We discuss the symmetry of event structures. The symmetry reduction technique is used to reduce an event structures to get a simple quotient structure through the equivalence class induced by a permutation group. The action-based event structure formulas without confliction modality can be easily verified on the quotient structure for multi-agent systems.
Ubiquitous computing environment has become more popular as a highly open, heterogeneous and service-rich domain, which makes it essential and important for end-users to build a reasonable service provision model. The critical issue for service provision is how to sense context information and provide personalized services according to current context and user's requirement. This paper presents a service provision model based on context-awareness for dynamic ubiquitous computing environment called C-SPM. C-SPM provides context-aware service that is aware of context information, and uses intelligent provision mechanism to provide personalized services for users according to their context and requirements.
This paper presents a novel service discovery framework for ubiquitous computing called Ubiquitous Computing Service Discovery Framework (UCSDF). UCSDF offers a more flexible and scalable architecture which can combine the local services with remote services. That characteristic makes UCSDF different from many other service discovery frameworks and more adaptive to ubiquitous computing environments.
Matrix converter is a studied hot spot of frequency-changing control in the field of power electronics. And adaptive fuzzy PID control is a hot spot of intelligent control research. The fitting combination of both is a new research direction. This paper briefly describes the working principle, space vector modulation strategy of matrix converter, characteristics of fuzzy control, and the basic principle of adaptive fuzzy PID. It also comprehensively gave out a fuzzy rule table of three parameters of PID. The space vector modulation strategy for matrix converter was realized with S-functions. The three simulation models of matrix converter were set up with power system blockset, etc. of SIMULINK under unbalanced input voltages. The simulated results have shown that this intelligent control method is feasible and it can effectively raise the output waveform qualities of matrix converter under unbalanced input voltages.
Belief rule based expert systems are an extension of traditional rule based systems and are capable of representing more complicated causal relationships using different types of information with uncertainties. This paper describes how the belief rule based expert systems can be trained and used for pipeline leak detection. Pipeline operations under different conditions are modelled by a belief rule base using expert knowledge, which is then trained and fine tuned using pipeline operating data, and validated by testing data. All training and testing data are collected and scaled from a real pipeline. The study demonstrates that the belief rule based system is flexible, can be adapted to represent complicated expert systems, and is a valid novel approach for pipeline leak detection. (C) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper proposes the local interaction method to train neural networks for predicting future variable values of environmental system. Time-series data including soil, stream water and climatic variables were measured hourly over half of a year at two observation spots in Qingpu district, 45 kilometers west to Shanghai city. Three different methods, including our biologically plausible method, have used the data sets to train neural networks. The temporal pattern recognition capabilities for these methods were compared. Our method was proved more competitive than the other two traditional methods in using large data sets to detect patterns and predict events for complex environmental systems.
Lake Dianchi is one of the most extensively impacted freshwater lakes by algal blooms. To investigate the response of dominant algal genera, neural networks were applied to model the relationship between water quality parameters and the biomass of four dominant genera (Microcystic spp., Anabaena sp., Quadricauda (Turp.) Breb, Pediastrum Mey) in Dianchi. Results showed that the timing and magnitude of algal blooms of Microcystic spp., nabaena sp., Quadricauda (Turp.) Breb, and Pediastrum Mey in Dianchi could be successfully predicted. The evaluation of environmental factors showed that pH had more significant impact on concentrations of all the four dominant algal genera than the nutrient factors, such as total phosphorus and total nitrogen.
Centralized data mining techniques are widely used today for the analysis of large corporate and scientific data stored in databases. However, industry, science, and commerce fields often need to analyze very large datasets maintained over geographically distributed sites by using the computational power of distributed systems. The Grid can play a significant role in providing an effective computational infrastructure support for this kind of data mining. Similarly, the advent of multi-agent systems has brought us a new paradigm for the development of complex distributed applications. During the past decades, there have been several models and systems proposed to apply agent technology building distributed data mining (DDM). Through a combination of these two techniques, we investigated the critical issues to build DDM on Grid infrastructure and design an Agent Grid Intelligent Platform as a testbed. We also implement an integrated toolkit VAStudio for quickly developing agent-based DDM applications and compare its function with other systems. (C) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Aimed at implementation puzzles of fuzzy PID controller because of computational complexity, in this paper, in order to reduce computational complexity and realize real-time control, authors utilized universal approximation of the NN to reconstruct an equivalent NN model to accurately approximate a known fuzzy PID controller. Consequently, authors simulated to control the same process model by the fuzzy PID controller and the remodeling NN with different reference inputs, respectively. Results show that control qualities from two different controllers were extremely similar. Therefore, the fuzzy PID controller can be replaced by a remodeling NN in purpose of reducing the computational complexity, dimensional disaster and improving the real-time performance.
The support vector machine (SVM) is a class of powerful classification tools that have many successful applications. Their classification results usually belong to either one class or the other. But in many real-world applications, each data point no more exactly belongs to one of the two classes, it may 70% belong to one class and 30% to another. That is, there is a fuzzy membership associated with each data. In such an environment, fuzzy SVM (FSVM), which treats every sample as both positive and negative classes with the fuzzy membership, were introduced. In this way the FSVM will have more generalization ability, while preserving the merit of insensitive to outliers. Although the FSVM has good generalization capability, the computational complexity of the existing FSVM is rather large because the final solution is obtained from solving a quadratic programming (QP) problem. For reducing the complexity, this study proposes a least squares method to solve FSVM. In the proposed model, we consider equality constraints instead of inequalities for the classification problem with a formulation in a least squares sense. As a result the solutions follow directly from solving a set of linear equations instead of QP thus reducing the computational complexity greatly relative to the classical FSVM. For illustration purpose, a real-world credit risk assessment dataset is used to test the effectiveness of the LS-FSVM model.
For the general two-dimensional fuzzy controller, the output control value is a rigid function with respect to the error and the change in error, so it is difficult to obtain the desired effects for the plant that is uncertain and time-varying. Aimed at the problem, the paper applies gradient descent learning algorithm to correct the mean and variance of Gaussian membership functions of all fuzzy sets in the input and output universes, in this way, the fuzzy control system is adaptive. Selecting input signals as step, ramp, acceleration and sine signals, respectively, all simulation studies were carried out. The results demonstrate that the control algorithm is feasible, and its effect is better than that of the fuzzy control system without adaptability.
In location determination based on natural language, it is common to find the location by describing relationship between the undetermined position and one or several determined position. That indicates that the uncertainty of location determination processing is derived from the one of natural language procedure, the one of spatial position description and the one of spatial relationship description. Most of current researches and regular GIS software take certainty as prerequisite and try to avoid uncertainty and its influence. The research reported in this paper is an attempt to create a new combing method of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Fuzzy set theory and spatial information science named Quickly Location Determination based on Geographic Keywords (QLDGK) to rise to the challenge of location searching technique based on natural language. QLDGK have two technical gists. The first one is geographic-keywords-library and special natural-language-separation-model-library that increases the language processing efficiency. The second one is A fuzzy theory based definition of spatial relationship, spatial metric and spatial orientation that extends the searching scope and defines variant confidences on variant searching outcome. QLDGK takes consideration on both higher query efficiency and the lower omission rate. The above method has been proved workable and efficient by QLDGK prototype system which was tested by about 12000 emergency call reports from K-city, Southwest of China, and achieved the test result with 78% accuracy in highest confidence and 8% omitting ration.
To make service matchmaking more adaptive to various set-vice requests and diverse services, an abstract service model called ASM-TL is proposed in this paper. ASM-TL provides a unified way to describing service capabilities. It can describe some important factors affecting service capabilities such as internal constraints, invocation constraints and operation interactions. Moreover, ASM-TL also lays a foundation for service reasoning by providing a process model, which represents states transition, message transferring and temporal properties of a service. Thus, treating service requests as temporal conditions, service matchmaking can be done through model checking and is more adaptive to various service requests and diverse services. ASM-TL has been applied to the Problem Solving Environment for bioinformatics research. Analysis and applications show ASM-TL is effective to enable adaptive service matchmaking.
This paper concerns how to compute discrete real functions using three-layer feedforward neural networks with one hidden layer. Firstly, we define strongly and weakly symmetric real functions. Then we give a network to compute a specific strongly symmetric real function. The number of the hidden neurons is given and the weights of hidden neurons are 1 or -1. Algorithm 1 modifies the weights to real numbers to compute arbitrary strongly symmetric real functions. Theorem 3 extends the results to compute any discrete real functions. Finally, we give an example to indicate our results.
Devising switching schemes for networks of colliding and correlated RFID readers is a core challenge in the reliable operation of RFID augmented ubiquitous environment. In this paper, a novel optimal scheduling scheme for RFID networks using a symbiotic multi-species particle swarm oplimizer (SMSO) is presented The SMSO, which inspired by the biological phenomenon of symbiosis in nature, can remarkably enhance the convergence and accuracy of the standard particle swarm optimizer (SPSO) when applied to perform the nonlinear optimization problems. Numerical simulations of three benchmark junctions are used to test the performance of SMSO. Furthermore, simulation on RFID reader networks architecture is given to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheduling scheme.
This paper presents a novel robot named "TUT03-A" with expert systems, speech interaction, vision systems etc. based on remote-brained approach. The robot is designed to have the brain and body separated. There is a cerebellum in the body. The brain with the expert systems is in charge of decision and the cerebellum control motion of the body. The brain-body. interface has many kinds of structure. It enables a brain to control one or more cerebellums. The brain controls all modules in the system and coordinates their work. The framework of the robot allows us to carry out different kinds of robotics research in an environment that can be shared and inherited over generations. Then we discuss the path planning method for the robot based on ant colony algorithm. The mathematical model is established and the algorithm is achieved with the Starlogo simulating environment. The simulation result shows that it has strong robustness and eligible pathfinding efficiency.
Considering about to solve the bottleneck problem of computing ability and power consumption of mobile robot vision system, a DSP and FPGA based intelligent image grabber and a robot vision system using this intelligent image grabber are developed. The configuration and some important characteristics of this robot vision system, which can not only complete the work of image capturing but can also process images using diffierent algorithms in real-time, are described in this paper. It has been sho m by experiments and performance comparison that this newly developed robot vision system is more suitable for mobile robots than the traditional PC based robot vision system.
The architecture of coordination model of SoftMan society is put forward, and the content of coordination model of SoftMan society is explained According to the ideas of decomposition and coordination of large systems cybernetics, three kinds of common coordination models of SoftMan society, which include centralized coordination model, decentralized coordination model and hierarchical coordination model, are studied on the basis of reference to artificial society and Multi-Agent Systems. Coordination models and algorithms of SoftMan society are studied so as to reduce system resource use rate, and to improve coordination efficiency.
Context aware ubiquitous learning is pervasive and persistent, allowing learners to access education calmly, flexibly and seamlessly. The objective of context aware ubiquitous learning is to move e-learning and mobile learning a step further from learning at anytime anywhere to be at the right time and right place with right learning resources and right learning peers. In recent years, wireless sensor networks have become an evolving technology that has a wide range of potential applications in ubiquitous computing. We introduced an image of context-awareness in ubiquitous learning based on wireless sensor networks. We showed the architecture Of context-awareness in ubiquitous learning in general, introduced the components of a sensor node and protocol stack of wireless sensor networks, and pointed out conclusions and open research issues with regard to context aware ubiquitous learning.
In this letter, a new method is proposed for stability analysis of neural networks (NNs) with a time-varying delay. Some less conservative delay-dependent stability criteria are established by considering the additional useful terms, which were ignored in previous methods, when estimating the upper bound of the derivative of Lyapunov functionals and introducing the new free-weighting matrices. Numerical examples are given to demonstrate the effectiveness and the benefits of the proposed method.
In this paper, we investigate a case-based reasoning (CBR) method for the classification of multi-temporal SAR images with the aid of ancillary information. Our scheme for the problem of multi-temporal SAR images classification comprises four main steps, including SAR image processing, construction of case library, case-based classification and post-classification processing. During the construction of case library, we employ a spatial-temporal analysis technique to remove fake cases, which can guarantee cases with high confidence. In the implementation of case-based classification, we propose a similarity assessment and use it for the case-based matching. After that, we investigate an object-oriented post-classification method which takes the shape of land use region into account, as a result, it leads to a more meaningful classification, and the regenerate land use image or map can be easier compared and combined with usual GIS data.
Under the difficult circumstances such as catastrophic terrorism, emergency rescue and assistance planning (EMAP) always involves complex sets of objectives and constraints. We propose a multi-agent constraint programming framework which is aimed to tackling complex operations problems during the emergency response processes. The framework employs the component-based agent model to support ERAP problem specification, solving, composition/decomposition, feedback and dynamic control. A typical emergency response system is composed of seven types of top-level agents, which are further composed of sub-agents at lower levels of granularity. In particular, agents that play key roles in task control and problem solving are based on asynchronous team (ATeam) in which sub-agents share a population and evolve an optimized set of solutions. A case study is presented to illustrate our approach.
In symbolic computing, a major bottleneck is middle expression swell. Symbolic geometric computing based on invariant algebras can alleviate this difficulty. For example, the size of projective geometric computing based on bracket algebra can often be restrained to two terms, using final polynomials, area method, Cayley expansion, etc. This is the "binomial" feature of projective geometric computing in the language of bracket algebra.
Image compression has been used to increase the communication efficiency and storage capacity. JPEG 2000 compression, based on the wavelet transformation, has its advantages comparing to other compression methods, such as ROI coding, error resilience, adaptive binary arithmetic coding and embedded bit-stream. However it is still difficult to find an objective method to evaluate the image quality of lossy-compressed medical images so far. In this paper, we present an approach to evaluate the image quality by using a computer aided diagnosis (CAD) system. We selected 77 cases of CT images, bearing benign and malignant lung nodules with confirmed pathology, from our clinical Picture Archiving and Communication System (PACS). We have developed a prototype of CAD system to classify these images into benign ones and malignant ones, the performance of which was evaluated by the receiver operator characteristics (ROC) curves. We first used JPEG 2000 to compress these cases of images with different compression ratio from lossless to lossy, and used the CAD system to classify the cases with different compressed ratio, then compared the ROC curves from the CAD classification results. Support vector machine (SVM) and neural networks (NN) were used to classify the malignancy of input nodules. In each approach, we found that the area under ROC (AUC) decreases with the increment of compression ratio with small fluctuations.
Since 1986 Bayesian Network has been a hot study topic in artificial intelligence field. We have researched Bayesian Network and related algorithms in remote sensing data processing for five years. Recently we finished BayesNetEX which is an extensive edition software of Bayesian network algorithms for remote sensing image processing and knowledge inference. The copyright is from Copyright Protection Center of China. This paper briefly introduces the main modules of BayesNetEX and demonstrates its classification application with an ETM+ image, which also shows some potential applications in remote sensing image processing.
In this paper a new method for recognition of 2D occluded shapes based on neural networks using generalized differential evolution training algorithm is proposed. Firstly, a generalization strategy of differential evolution algorithm is introduced. And this global optimization algorithm is applied to train the multilayer perceptron neural networks. The proposed algorithms are evaluated through a plant species identification task involving 25 plant species. For this practical problem, a multiscale Fourier descriptors (MFDs) method is applied to the plant images to extract shape features. Finally, the experimental results show that our proposed GDE training method is feasible and efficient for large-scale shape recognition problem. Moreover, the experimental results illustrated that the GDE training algorithm combined with gradient-based training algorithms will achieve better convergence performance. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
An Improved discrete particle swarm optimization (DPSO)-based algorithm for the traveling salesman problem (TSP) is proposed In order to overcome the problem of premature convergence, a novel depressor is proposed and a diversity measure to control the swarm is also introduced which can be used to switch between the attractor and depressor. The proposed algorithm has been applied to a set of benchmark problems and compared with the existing algorithms for solving TSP using swarm intelligence. The results show that it can prevent premature convergence to a high degree, but still keeps a rapid convergence like the basic DPSO.
RF hyperthermia system is a kind of medical device to restrain and kill cancer tumor base on RF heating technique and biology heating effect theory. The mathematical model of the control system is very difficult to be formed due to the extreme complication physical process of temperature increase during the thermal treatment and the various structure and characteristic of internal tissues. In this paper, we present a new fuzzy control algorithm, in which a self-regulation factor is adopted to realize real-time temperature control with high-precision controller. By means of software arithmetic and hardware adjustment, accurate temperature and time control can be achieved in this system.
Clustering analysis is an important function of data mining. Various clustering methods are need for different domains and applications. A clustering algorithm for data mining based on swarm intelligence called Ant-Cluster is proposed in this paper. Ant-Cluster algorithm introduces the concept of multi-population of ants with different speed, and adopts fixed moving times method to deal with outliers and locked ant problem. Finally, we experiment on a telecom company's customer data set with SWARM, agent-based model simulation software, which is integrated in SIMiner, a data mining software system developed by our own studies based on swarm intelligence. The results illuminate that Ant-Cluster algorithm can get clustering results effectively without giving the number of clusters and have better performance than k-means algorithm.
Wireless sensor networks have become an evolving technology that has a wide range of potential applications in ubiquitous computing. In ubiquitous learning environment, education is happening all around the learner but the learner may not even be conscious of the learning process. Wireless sensor networks play an important role in collecting learner's contextual information in ubiquitous learning. Firstly, we described communication architecture of wireless sensor networks in ubiquitous learning. Then, we analyzed critical design issues of wireless sensor networks that are specific to ubiquitous learning, especially on heterogeneity, localization, and synchronization. Finally, we pointed out conclusions and open research issues with regard to wireless sensor networks in ubiquitous learning.
A dynamic model of variable pitch and variable speed wind turbine was developed. This model can be used simulate wind turbine and design pitch and toque controller. The research work presented in this paper is aimed to reduce pitch actuator fatigue and smooth output power above-rated power operating condition. To cope with the nonlinear characteristics of wind turbine and reduce the pitch actuator fatigue, a new control strategy for variable pitch variable speed wind turbine is proposed. In the proposed method a variable gains PD controller based on fuzzy control theory is used. The inputs of fuzzy controller are rotor speed and pitch angle. A comparison with purposed strategies and PI controllers is performed. Simulation result show that the proposed approach results in better power regulation and less pitch action. The proposed strategy is easy to realize and has stronger robustness.
By embedding the fuzzy neural networks, we construct a fuzzy approximation network perturbation system based on the human knowledge. A survey of the princi(1)ple of this system is presented including the architectures and hybrid learning rules. In order to enhance the traffic productivity, using Fuzzy Logic Toolbox of MATLAB, we establish a prediction model and apply it to risk analysis in transportation capacity. In terms of the simulation result, the model is quite good and decreases risk in transportation capacity.
Electricity is the main type of energy consumed by industry. Awareness of opportunities for reducing electrical consumption has brought an emphasis on electrical energy saving for research such as in power electronics. This paper proposes an energy optimized control using fuzzy logic for induction motors based on noninstrusive efficiency estimation. The presented control is viewed as a direct energy saving technique since it takes into account both the input and output powers of the induction motor, through feedback of the efficiency estimate.
To solve the complex problems of predicting traffic of vessels passing through ship lock, the gray forecasting model and its application to predict traffic of vessels passing through ship lock are discussed in this paper. The GM (1, 1) model is set up according to the gray forecasting theory and the detailed steps of the model are described. The practical implementation of the model. was accomplished by a case study in prediction of traffic of vessels passing through ship lock in Three Gorges Dam. Results are checked by the back-check method and show that the model based on grey system theory is feasible and has high reliability.
This paper considers the challenging Belgian chocolate stabilization problem posed by V.Blondel. Based on the recent development in automated inequality-type theorem proving, the exact upper bounds for delta which guarantee the existence of bistable stabilizers with order no more than four have been determined. By a suitable perturbation of the obtained stabilizable conditions, a numerical example of fourth-order controller is found, which improves the maximal value of delta proposed in the literature.
In this paper, decentralized games of discrete-time large population stochastic multi-agent systems are considered under a coupled quadratic performance index. Based on the state aggregation method, the estimate of the population state average is constructed, with which and the Nash certainty equivalence principle, the decentralized control law is designed. By the probability limit theory, the stability and optimality of closed-loop system is analyzed. The main results are: 1) The estimate of the population state average is shown to be strongly consistent in some norm sense, which implies that the estimation error is convergent to zero almost surely as the number of agents increases to infinity. 2) The closed-loop system is almost surely uniformly stable, in other words, the stability is independent of the number of agents. 3) The decentralized control law is almost surely asymptotically optimal in the sense of Nash equilibrium.
Cognitive Map (CM) is a new intelligent method. Compared either experts system and neural networks, it has several desirable advantages such as: it is relative easy to use for representing structured knowledge, and the inference can be computed by numeric matrix operation instead of explicit IF/THEN rules. However, in order to exhibit these advantages about CM, the first step is that the corrected CMs must be obtained. Traditional approaches for obtaining the CMs, including questionnaire method, brainstorming method and sample learning method, mainly rely on experience of domain experts. Because these methods put much emphasis on the subjective factors, neglect the objective data resources, they always lose some information. Therefore, this paper proposes a new methodology of mining the CMs based on data resource, which mainly includes database preprocessing technology, optimization algorithm for weight coefficients and simplification strategy of CMs. The experimental research based on a finance database is done and the results show that: the new method can mine all possible relationship among all nodes to form the CMs, and can also simplify it according to the significant degree of relationships; the CMs mined by the new method has more information than the CMs obtained by traditional approaches.
Networked control of PEM fuel cell is worth studying because PEM fuel cell as an electricity generation device can be used in the environment that not suit for people's direct manipulating, such as deep-sea, air space and other dangerous places. However, data packet loses and random delay both in forward communication channel and in backward communication channel can highly degrade the control performance. This paper proposed a novel networked predictive fuzzy control strategy, which can effectively compensate for these kinds of network data packet loses and random delay. Simulations in the control of PEM fuel cell demonstrated the good performance of this method.
Quantum amplitude amplification is a kind of useful technique in quantum computation and it can boost the success probability of some quantum algorithms. Reinforcement strategy in reinforcement learning is essentially to boost the selection probability of "good" action. Considering the common characteristics, this paper uses the idea of amplitude amplification to reinforcement learning as a new reinforcement strategy, proposes a learning algorithm based on quantum amplitude amplification and demonstrates its effectiveness through simulated experiments.
The Vicsek model can be used to describe a basic class of multi-agent systems with local interactions: each agent has the tendency to behave as other agents do in its neighborhood. Through computer simulations, Vicsek et al.(1995) showed that such simple local interactions may lead to certain kind of cooperative phenomenon (synchronization) of the overall system, if the size of the system population is large. Since this model is of fundamental importance in understanding multi-agent systems, it has attracted much attention from researchers in recent years. In this paper, we will present a comprehensive theoretical analysis of the Vicsek model in a random framework with large population. To be precise, we will show that if both the interaction radius r and the agents' moving velocity v decrease as the population size n increases, but satisfy a certain constraint on the decreasing rates, then the overall system will synchronize for large n. The proofs are based on the recent work of Tang and Guo([1, 2]), and involves the use of spectral graph theory and double array martingale estimation theory.
The consensus problem of multi-agent systems has attracted wide attention from researchers in recent years, following the initial work of Jadbabaie et al [1] on the analysis of a simplified Vicsek model. While the original Vicsek model contains noise effects, almost all the existing theoretical results on consensus problem, however, do not take the noise effects into account. The purpose of this paper is to initiate a study of the consensus problems under noise disturbances. First, the class of multi-agent systems under study is transformed into the following general time-varying systems with noises: x(t+1) = P(t)x(t)+w(t+1), where JP(t) I is a sequence of nonnegative stochastic matrices. Then, for such a general time-varying systems, the equivalent relationships are established among (i) robust consensus, (ii) the positivity of the second smallest eigenvalue of a weighted Laplacian matrix, and (iii) the joint connectivity of the associated dynamical neighbor graphs. Finally, this basic equivalence result is shown to be applicable to several class of concrete multi-agent models with noises.
This paper considers the consensus problem of multi-agent systems, where each agent has n-th order dynamic mode. Three cases are considered. First of all, the agents are assumed to be lined up as a chain. Each agent can obtain the information from the agent ahead of it. Secondly, assume each agent can obtain the information from its neighbors and the adjacent graph with fixed or varying topology is connected. Thirdly, we consider a nonlinear case. Under certain assumption, it can be transformed into a linear case. In different cases we prove that the consensus can be achieved by local-information-based decentralized controls. Some existing results become particular cases of our general result.
In this paper, we will study how locally interacting agents lead to synchronization of the overall system for a basic class of multi-agent systems that are described by a simplification of the well-known Vicsek Model. This model looks simple, but the rigorous theoretical analysis appears to be quite complicated, because there are strong nonlinear interactions among the update laws of the agents' positions and headings. In fact, most of the existing theoretical analyzes hinge on certain connectivity conditions on the global behavior of the agents' trajectories (or on the neighborhood graphs of the underlying dynamical systems), which are quite hard to verify in general. In this paper, by working in a probabilistic framework, we will give a complete and rigorous proof for the following fact observed in simulation: the overall multi-agent system will synchronize with large probability for large population. The proof is carried out by analyzing both the dynamical properties of the nonlinear system evolution and the asymptotic properties of the spectrum of random geometric graphs.
Option has proven useful in discovering hierarchical structure in reinforcement learning to fasten learning. The key problem of automatic option discovery is to find subgoals. Though approaches based on visiting-frequency have gained much research focuses, many of them fail to distinguish subgoals from their nearby states. Based on the action-restricted property of subgoals we find subgoals can be regarded as the most matching action-restricted states in the paths. For the grid-world environment, the concept of unique-direction value embodying the action-restricted property is introduced to find the most matching action-restricted states. Experiment results prove that the proposed approach can find subgoals correctly and the Q-learning with options found speed up the learning greatly.
Electricity companies face great credit risks because of the consume-and-pay method of electricity payment. Credit scoring is a very important method in recognizing credit risk, so this study investigates the classification models to identify the credit risk inherent in the payment method used by electricity companies. Three different classification methods, i.e. decision tree, neural networks and logistic regression, are examined for their suitability in credit scoring. As the results reveal, logistic regression outperforms the other alternatives. This paper presents a useful framework to choose the best model to recognize the credit risk for electricity companies.
It's well known that soil erosion is a complicated phenomenon. It's hard to express it with a uniform equation, however BP artificial neural network has great advantages of solving non-linear problems, so it can use BP artificial neural network to research on soil erosion quantitatively. In this research it lays out experiment in the east and west of Liaoning province. It measures 4 factors which mainly influence soil erosion except quantity of soil erosion. They are rainfall erosivity, slop, soil water content before rainfall and crop coverage. These data are composed of 85 samples in total. This paper builds double-layer BP artificial neural network for east region and west region respectively. It uses some samples to train BP artificial neural network and others to verify it. Research results show that judging from the errors these two BP artificial neural networks can be applied to research on soil erosion quantitatively. Simulative results can be used to confirm the rank of soil erosion. Comparing with the results of multi-factor orthogonal regression analysis using BP artificial neural network is much more approaching-the real value. Besides it discusses the problems on BP artificial neural network application.
This paper proposes a novel pose system for mobile robots, which can provide cheap and robust solution for pose estimation. Its pose estimation approach is based on at least two optical sensors. The pose system also presents a method for system calibration to improve accuracy. There are several advantages with respect to this system: (1) the measurement from the optical sensors is insensitive to slipping and crawling; (2) this pose estimation system is independent from the kinematics of the robot; (3) compared to incremental encoders, our system is a low-cost and flexible solution for indoor mobile robots. Some simulations have been done to validate our system.
Existing modeling frameworks for manufacturing control can be classified into hierarchical framework and heterarchical framework. The two modeling frameworks have some drawbacks which can't be overcome only depending on them. In this paper, in order to improve the performance of the laser welding flexible manufacturing system (LWFMS) we have developed a hybrid modeling framework which has the features of the hierarchical and the heterarchical framework. The LWFMS contains several robots and many workstations which work together to realize a common goal. There exists coordination and cooperation among the different robots and workstations so the multi-agent technology is adopted in the LWFMS. In the end, the simulation result of the hybrid control framework in the LWFMS testifies the validity of the model.
As innovative technologies like ubiquitous computing and grid computing continue to emerge and become more popular, the amount of resource available on them has come to an extreme extend. However, traditional provider-centric resource sharing architecture focuses on defining service interfaces so that users must know exactly where and how to explicitly ask for resources. This method can not satisfy user's personalized task requirements. To solve the problem, this paper puts forward a user-centric resource sharing architecture which called URSA. The U-RSA mainly focuses on abstracting the currently personal computing environment from user's perspective. This paper also discusses the key technologies of our architecture.
A large number of workflow systems are in existence, offering various orchestration capabilities. How to make full use of the legacy workflow capabilities in a grid environment is of importance for saving investments as well as enabling dynamic collaboration and boundary-crossing problem solving. In this paper, we propose a concept model for leveraging and aggregating legacy workflow capabilities. The model contains a general way to describe capabilities of legacy workflow systems, two main abstractions for transparent workflow capability usage and an abstract way for boundary-crossing workflow definition. The presented is evaluated with a case study.
Based on a comprehensive analysis of existing grid portals and problem-solving environments, Astrolabe, a feature-rich grid operating environment built on a fine-tuned client/server architecture is presented in this paper In Astrolabe, a dynamic portlet container is deployed at the client side to provide portlets with more powerful runtime capabilities such as rich interfaces, local resource accessability and offline usage, comparing to the JSR-168 specification. A workflow designer is built upon the portlet container to provide integrated workflow modeling capability. Moreover, server-side components are also employed to enable portability and collaboration among users. The main contribution of this paper is bringing the aforementioned features as a full package, which could improve the usability of current grid computing environments. Eclipse RCP is utilized for the implementation of Astrolabe to leverage the state of the art of rich client technologies.
As the growing use of Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology to enhance ubiquitous computing environments, the privacy protection problem becomes a crucial issue. The objective of private authentication for RFID systems is to allow valid readers explicitly authenticate their dominated tags without leaking tags' private information. To achieve strong privacy, recently, Lu et al. propose a Strong and lightweight RFID Private Authentication protocol (SPA), which enables dynamic key-updating mechanism for balanced tree based authentication approaches. However, due to its balanced tree structure, SPA is still susceptible to compromising attacks. In this paper we propose a Storage-Aware Private Authentication protocol (SAPA). This scheme employs the sparse tree structure, and treats the path of each tag in the tree as an independent secret. As a result, SAPA enjoys perfect privacy and largely reduces the space for storing key sequence on the side of the tag, while keeping the key search complexity on the side of the reader still be logarithmic.
Legged robots, as one kind of mobile robots, can be used for tasks too dangerous or difficult for human to perform, eg, planetary exploration, disaster salvation and anti-terrorism action. Consequently, the issues of legged robots, including mechanical structure, stability analysis and control algorithms, have become an important research direction in the field of robotics in recent years. This paper surveys the current status with respect to legged robots, and describes the existent research approaches in terms of mechanical structure, stability analysis and control algorithms of legged robots. To conclude, this paper proposes the problems to be solved and discusses the future development of legged robots.
In our previous work, we have analyzed the shortcomings of existing business intelligence (131) theory and its actionable capability. One of the works we have presented is the ontology-based integration of business, data warehousing and data mining. This way may make existing BI systems as user and business-friendly as expected. However, it is challenging to tackle issues and construct actionable and business-friendly systems by simply improving existing BI framework. Therefore, in this paper, we further propose a new framework for constructing nextgeneration BI systems. That is intelligence metasynthesis, namely the next-generation BI systems should to some extent synthesize four types of intelligence, including data intelligence, domain intelligence, human intelligence and network/web intelligence. The theory for guiding the intelligence metasynthesis is metasynthetic engineering. To this end, an appropriate intelligence integration framework is substantially important. We first address the roles of each type of intelligence in developing next-generation BI systems. Further, implementation issues are addressed by discussing key components for synthesizing the intelligence. The proposed framework is based on our real-world experience and practice in designing and implementing BI systems. It also greatly benefits from multi-disciplinary knowledge dialog such as complex intelligent systems and cognitive sciences. The proposed theoretical framework has potential to deal with key challenges in existing BI framework and systems.
An essential component of soil mapping is classification, a process of assigning spatial soil entities to predefined categories (classes). However, by their nature soils exist as a continuum both in the spatial and attribute domains and often cannot be fitted into discrete categories without introducing errors or at least over-simplification. One approach to mitigate this problem in digital soil mapping is the combination of fuzzy logic-based class assignment with a raster GIS representation model which allows the continuous spatial variation of soils to be expressed at much greater detail than has been achieved in conventional (analog) soil survey. However, applications of fuzzy soil mapping face two significant challenges: defining the central concept of a soil category and determining the degree of membership to the central concept. Prototype category theory is presented here as a potential solution to these difficulties. Emerging from ideas of family resemblance, centrality and membership gradience, and fuzzy boundaries (fuzzy set theory), prototype category theory stresses the fact that category membership is not homogenous and that some members are better representatives of a category than others. A prototype can be viewed as a representation of the category, that 1) reflects the central tendency of the instances' properties or patterns; 2) consequently is more similar to some category members than others; and 3) is itself realizable but is not necessarily an instance. Based on this notion, we developed a prototype-based approach to acquire and represent knowledge on soil-landscape relationships and apply the knowledge in digital soil mapping under fuzzy logic. The prototype-based approach was applied in a case study to map soils in central Wisconsin, USA. Our approach created maps that were more accurate in terms of both soil series prediction and soil texture estimation than either the traditional soil survey or a case-based reasoning approach. (c) 2006 Published by Elsevier B.V.
To study the path tracking control based on the kinematic model of a 2-wheel differentially driven mobile robot, dynamic control for angular velocity is introduced and a hybrid tracking control algorithm is proposed. By using the backstepping method and Lyapunov function, a smooth time-varying tracking controller is designed. Combining a fuzzy sliding mode controller, the global convergence of path tracking control is guaranteed. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.
A new car intelligent cruise system was introduced. In the system, the laser range finder, the ultrasonic range finder and the infrared range finder are used for judging dynamic and static state roadblocks around a controlled car and forecasting a possible accident. A self-optimizing fuzzy control with an immune correction coefficient was proposed. It absorbs well the advantages both good off-line optimizing function of fuzzy control parameters in GA and good on-line regulating function with an immune correction coefficient. They were discussed that the fuzzy control parameters optimize on the real-time imitating and the immune correction coefficient real-time regulates based on immune feedback. The system can match the work of an engine and an ATM to ensure the reaction speed, braking effects and security. The application effect is good.
This paper presents a novel approach to dynamic path planning for a mobile manipulator whose end-effector must travel along a given path. Such a task-consistency motion planning is widely used in practical applications such as painting and welding, etc. But few papers considered this problem in dynamic environments. In this paper a general method is proposed which consists of a preprocessing and a dynamic planning stage. Preprocessing, which is realized by extending traditional PRM planner, builds up a collision free path for static obstacles. In the dynamic planning stage, the mobile manipulator moves along the path produced in the first stage and detects dynamic obstacles by the strategy of dynamic obstacles detection in real time. If the planner computes that the collision will happen in the future some steps, then a local planner of RRT-like will be used to update the roadmap rapidly to avoid the dynamic obstacles. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is illustrated by several experiments.
This paper considers the formation control problem of multi-agent system in a distributed fashion. The proposed local control strategies of formation stabilization is based on artificial potential functions, which are obtained from structural constraints of a desired formation, and leads to a distributed and bounded state feedback law for each agent. We also extend distributed cooperative control law of multi-agent formations to directed graph case.
Based on optimal theory, Kelly model realizes the bandwidth allocation on network with proportional fairness and asymptotical stability. However, its primal algorithm causes the packet accumulation in the bottleneck link queue. By using heuristic fuzzy rules, this paper designs a fuzzy controller to adjust the additive increase parameter of the primal algorithm, which can let the aggregate data flow rate equal the bandwidth of the bottleneck link. Thus it can avoid the packet accumulation in queue. The fuzzy control mechanism also keeps the fairness and asymptotical stability.
This paper investigates mobile robot path planning problems with ant colony optimization algorithms. Considering a mobile robot in a clustered environment, the path planning problem is to rind a feasible path from a beginning to a goal while avoiding obstacles. Lots of attentions have been paid on the path planning problem of mobile robots, but little is with the ant colony optimization algorithms. Originated from the MAX-MIN Ant System (MMAS) algorithm for traveling salesman problem, a modified ant colony optimization algorithm for path planning of a mobile robot is proposed. The algorithm has some distinguished features, such as a path pruning mechanism, etc. The optimal path of the mobile robot can be achieved effectively in different environments with a high probability. The major contribution is to provide a framework of mobile robot path planning with ant colony optimization.
The network-induced delay and packets dropout in the networked control systems can degrade the system dynamic performance and are sources of potential instability. So a discrete-time jump fuzzy system is developed to model networked control systems (NCSs). Based on this, an output feedback fuzzy controller can be obtained by solving a set of Linear Matrix Inequalities (LMI). The basic idea of the output feedback controller is to construct the sub-optimal performance controller for the discrete-time jump fuzzy systems in such a way that a piecewise quadratic Lyapunov function can be used to establish the global stability of the resulting close loop fuzzy control systems. Finally simulation examples are carried out to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
The parameters of a car-engine are of the discreteness, nonlinear and uncertain characteristics. a conventional control model cannot accurately control the excess air coefficient and the spark advance angle in dynamic procedure. An auto-optimized fuzzy control model was introduced. Based on Profibus-DP, an engine centralized control system using the model was discussed. Based on real-time simulation, the fuzzy control parameters were optimized automatically. The results of experiment show that the dynamic indexes and the fuel economy indexes are improved greatly. The model has the advantage Of reducing fuel consumption obviously.
In order to improve adaptability and real-time performance of the control system, the controller had adopted the adaptive neural fuzzy inference algorithm and implemented by high-speed embedded Digital Signal Processor. To avoid getting into the local optimal solution in an intelligent control system, designed a kind of fuzzy controller that absorbed manipulators' experiences and had been trained through data pairs in off-line could assure its optimal solution in the global. On the basis, the fuzzy control system will be replaced by neural network, which can obtain a series of suitable initial weights and adapt various of uncertain disturbances, in which, the neural network learning is gradient descent method. The experiment proves that this kind of controller has improved its real-time performance with embedded DSP implementation, and meets the requirement of dynamics and can follow the reference setting in the rotate speed effectively.
This paper discusses the stabilizing control of nonholonomic mobile robots. A control structure combining a kinematic controller and a dynamic controller based on nonlinear feedback control plus fuzzy compensator is presented. The fuzzy compensator, whose parameters are tuned on-line, is employed to approximate the total uncertainty including the structured and unstructured uncertainties. The stability of the proposed approach is guaranteed by the Lyapunov theory. Simulation results show the efficiency of the proposed approach.
A novel approach using angle histogram for estimating the orientation of mobile robots is presented. The angle histograms are generally established by the laser scans, where the pose of a mobile robot is unchanged. However it is difficult for application with the sonar scans, due to arc segments extracted from the sonar scans. In this paper, we put forward a novel approach to establish the angle histograms by use of sonar data from a moving robot and estimate the angle from the heading direction of the robot to the dominant orientation of the environment.
A kind of Bezier curve-based motion planning and control algorithm for biomimetic robot fish is proposed in the paper. A smooth Bezier curve can be planned from robot fish current state to the expected destination state. Then multiple discrete points are gained from the curve. The direction adjustment value between two continuous periods is little when robot fish swims along this curve. The motion control between these points is decomposed into direction and velocity control. The validity of the algorithm is tested through a shooting gate experiment.
Most mobile robots are nonholonomic systems. This paper proposes a stable tracking control rule based on backstepping for a nonholonomic mobile robot. Considering the dynamics of the mobile robot, we integrate a kinematic controller and a torque controller for the dynamic model of the nonholonomic mobile robot using backstepping techniques. Stability of the method is guaranteed by Lyapunov theory. The general structure presented in this paper for controlling a mobile robot can accommodate different control techniques such as artificial neural networks method and standard adaptive robust control etc. In this design, we proposed a backstepping-based controller and gives a design example for a mobile robot with two actuated wheels to show the validity of the proposed method.
Enhancing the robustness and interpretability of a multilayer perceptron (MLP) with a sigmoid activation function is a challenging topic. As a particular MLP, additive TS-type MLP (ATSMLP) can be interpreted based on single-stage fuzzy IF-THEN rules, but its robustness will be degraded with the increase in the number of intermediate layers. This paper presents a new MLP model called cascaded ATSMLP (CATSMLP), where the ATSMLPs are organized in a cascaded way. The proposed CATSMLP is a universal approximator and is also proven to be functionally equivalent to a fuzzy inference system based on syllogistic fuzzy reasoning. Therefore, the CATSMLP may be interpreted based on syllogistic fuzzy reasoning in a theoretical sense. Meanwhile, due to the fact that syllogistic fuzzy reasoning has distinctive advantage over single-stage IF-THEN fuzzy reasoning in robustness, this paper proves in an indirect way that the CATSMLP is more robust than the ATSMLP in an upper-bound sense. Several experiments were conducted to confirm such a claim.
In this paper, a novel full structure optimization algorithm for radial basis probabilistic neural networks (RBPNN) is proposed. Firstly, a minimum volume covering hyperspheres (MVCH) algorithm is proposed to heuristically select the initial hidden layer centers of the RBPNN, and then the recursive orthogonal least square (ROLS) algorithm combined with the particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm is adopted to further optimize the initial structure of the RBPNN. Finally, the effectiveness and efficiency of our proposed algorithm are evaluated through a plant species identification task involving 50 plant species. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
BP artificial neural networks combined with Kohonen networks were used for the simultaneous determination of tungsten and molybdenum by spectrophotometry. First, the topology structure of Kohonen artificial neural networks was studied, and applied to the wavelength selection of the overlapped spectra of tungsten and molybdenum. Then the most informative wavelengths were selected from the full spectra, and absorbance values were used as the optimal input sets of the three-layer BP neural networks. Compared with the routine method of wavelength selection, the results prove that using Kohonen networks to select the most informative wavelengths can optimize the input layer of BP-ANN, and the prediction ability of BP-ANN is improved. So Kohonen networks can be used as a tool for wavelength selection.
This paper proposes a novel hybrid forward algorithm (HFA) for the construction of radial basis function (RBF) neural networks with tunable nodes. The main objective is to efficiently and effectively produce a parsimonious RBF neural network that generalizes well. In this study, it is achieved through simultaneous network structure determination and parameter optimization on the continuous parameter space. This is a mixed integer hard problem and the proposed HFA tackles this problem using an integrated analytic framework, leading to significantly improved network performance and reduced memory usage for the network construction. The computational complexity analysis confirms the efficiency of the proposed algorithm, and the simulation results demonstrate its effectiveness.
The nonlinearity of the relationship between CO2 flux and other micrometeorological variables flux parameters limits the applicability of carbon flux models to accurately estimate the flux dynamics. However, the need for carbon dioxide (CO2) estimations covering larger areas and the limitations of the point eddy covariance technique to address this requirement necessitates the modeling of CO2 flux from other micrometeorological variables. Artificial neural networks (ANN) are used because of their power to fit highly nonlinear relations between input and output variables without explaining the nature of the phenomena. This paper applied a multilayer perception ANN technique with error back propagation algorithm to simulate CO2 flux on three different ecosystems (forest, grassland and cropland) in ChinaFLUX. Energy flux (net radiation, latent heat, sensible heat and soil heat flux) and temperature (air and soil) and soil moisture were used to train the ANN and predict the CO2 flux. Diurnal half-hourly fluxes data of observations from June to August in 2003 were divided into training, validating and testing. Results of the CO2 flux simulation show that the technique can successfully predict the observed values with R-2 value between 0.75 and 0.866. It is also found that the soil moisture could not improve the simulative accuracy without water stress. The analysis of the contribution of input variables in ANN shows that the ANN is not a black box model, it can tell us about the controlling parameters of NEE in different ecosystems and micro meteorological environment. The results indicate the ANN is not only a reliable, efficient technique to estimate regional or global CO2 flux from point measurements and understand the spatiotemporal budget of the CO2 fluxes, but also can identify the relations between the CO2 flux and micrometeorological variables.
Chunk decomposition is the decomposing of familiar patterns into their component elements so that they can be regrouped in another meaningful manner. Such a regrouping is sometimes critically required in problem solving because during initial encoding the problem elements become automatically grouped into familiar chunks and this may prohibit finding a novel or efficient solution to problems [G. Knoblich, S. Ohlsson, H. Haider, D. Rhenius, Constraint relaxation and chunk decomposition in insight problem solving, J. Exp. Psychol. Learn. Mem. Cogn. 25 (1999) 1534-1556]. In order to elucidate the brain mechanisms underlying the process of chunk decomposition, we developed a task that uses Chinese character as materials. Chinese characters are ideal examples of perceptual chunks. They are composed of radicals, which in turn, are composed of strokes. Because radicals are meaningful chunks themselves but strokes are not meaningful in isolation, it is much easier to separate a character by its radicals than to separate a character by its strokes. By comparing the stroke-level decomposition and the radical-level decomposition, we observed activities in occipital, frontal, and parietal lobes. Most importantly, during the moment of chunk decomposition, we found the early visual cortex showed a tendency of negative activation whereas the higher visual cortex showed a tendency of positive activation. This suggests that in order to successfully decompose a chunk, the higher visual areas must at least partly be 'disconnected' from the input provided by early visual processing in order to allow simple features to be rearranged into a different perceptual chunk. We conclude that early perceptual processes can crucially affect thinking and problem solving. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In the light of descriptive geometry and notions in set theory, this paper re-defines the basic elements in space such as curve and surface and so on, presents some fundamental notions with respect to the point cover based on the High-dimension space (HDS) point covering theory, finally takes points from mapping part of speech signals to HDS, so as to analyze distribution information of these speech points in HDS, and various geometric covering objects for speech points and their relationship. Besides, this paper also proposes a new algorithm for speaker independent continuous digit speech recognition based on the HDS point dynamic searching theory without end-points detection and segmentation. First from the different digit syllables in real continuous digit speech, we establish the covering area in feature space for continuous speech. During recognition, we make use of the point covering dynamic searching theory in HDS to do recognition, and then get the satisfying recognized results. At last, compared to HMM (Hidden Markov models)-based method, from the development trend of the comparing results, as sample amount increasing, the difference of recognition rate between two methods will decrease slowly, while sample amount approaching to be very large, two recognition rates all close to 100% little by little. As seen from the results, the recognition rate of HDS point covering method is higher than that of in HMM (Hidden Markov models) based method, because, the point covering describes the morphological distribution for speech in HDS, whereas HMM-based method is only a probability distribution, whose accuracy is certainly inferior to point covering.
In this paper, we firstly give the nature of 'hypersausages', study its structure and training of the network, then discuss the nature of it by way of experimenting with ORL face database, and finally, verify its unsurpassable advantages compared with other means.
We proposed a novel methodology, which firstly, extracting features from species' complete genome data, using k-tuple, followed by studying the evolutionary relationship between SARS-CoV and other coronavirus species using the method, called "High-dimensional information geometry". We also used the mothod, namely "caculating of Minimum Spanning Tree", to construct the Phyligenetic tree of the coronavirus. From construction of the unrooted phylogenetic tree, we found out that the evolution distance between SARS-CoV and other coronavirus species is comparatively far. The tree accurately rebuilt the three groups of other coronavirus. We also validated the assertion from other literatures that SARS-CoV is similar to the coronavirus species in Group I.
In this letter, a class of improved extreme learning machines (ELM) encoding a priori information is proposed to obtain better generalization performance and much faster convergence rate for function approximation. According to Fourier series expansion theory, the hidden neurons activation functions in the improved ELM are sine and cosine functions. In addition, the improved ELM analytically determines the output weights of neural networks. Finally, experimental results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of the improved ELM. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The main purpose of this study is to devise a general regression neural network (GRNN)- based currency crisis forecasting model for Southeast Asian economies based upon the disastrous 1997-1998 currency crisis experience. For this some typical indicators of currency exchange rates volatility are first chosen, then these indicators are input into GRNN for training, and finally the trained GRNN is used for future crisis prediction. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed currency crisis forecasting approach, four typical Southeast Asian currencies, Indonesian rupiah, Philippine peso, Singapore dollar and Thai baht, are selected. Meantime we compare its performance with those of other forecasting methods to evaluate the forecasting ability of the proposed approach. Empirical results obtained reveal that the proposed currency crisis forecasting model has a surprisingly high degree of accuracy in judging the currency crisis level of each country in specified time period, implying that our proposed approach can be used as a feasible currency crisis early-warning system to predict currency crisis level for other countries around the world.
Knowledge engineering stems from E. A. Figenbaum's proposal in 1977, but it will enter a new decade with the new challenges. This paper first summarizes three knowledge engineering experiments we have undertaken to show possibility of separating knowledge development from intelligent software development. We call it the ICAX mode of intelligent application software generation. The key of this mode is to generate knowledge base, which is the source of intelligence of ICAX software, independently and parallel to intelligent software development. That gives birth to a new and more general concept "knowware". Knowware is a commercialized knowledge module with documentation and intellectual property, which is computer operable, but free of any built-in control mechanism, meeting some industrial standards and embeddable in software/hardware. The process of development, application and management of knowware is called knowware engineering. Two different knowware life cycle models are discussed: the furnace model and the crystallization model. Knowledge middleware is a class of software functioning in all aspects of knowware life cycle models. Finally, this paper also presents some examples of building knowware in the domain of information system engineering.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is generally considered to be a subfield of computer science, that is concerned to attempt simulation, extension and expansion of human intelligence. Artificial intelligence has enjoyed tremendous success over the last fifty years. In this paper we only focus on visual perception, granular computing, agent computing, semantic grid. Human-level intelligence is the long-term goal of artificial intelligence. We should do joint research on basic theory and technology of intelligence by brain science, cognitive science, artificial intelligence and others. A new cross discipline intelligence science is undergoing a rapid development. Future challenges are given in final section.
Motivation: Microarrays are capable of determining the expression levels of thousands of genes simultaneously. One important application of gene expression data is classification of samples into categories. In combination with classification methods, this technology can be useful to support clinical management decisions for individual patients, e. g. in oncology. Standard statistic methodologies in classification or prediction do not work well when the number of variables p (genes) far too exceeds the number of samples n. So, modification of existing statistical methodologies or development of new methodologies is needed for the analysis of microarray data.
Under the guide of system theory, taking the oasis in the Sangong River watershed as a case study, this paper analyzes the oasis structure and function from 4 aspects including oasis spatial structure, water resources structure, vegetation structure, economic structure and their corresponding functions. The results indicate that as a typical small-scale watershed, Sangong River watershed has the relatively complete mountain-basin structure, and ecological and productive function. Because of human drastic activity the utilization rate of water resources was as high as 98.7%, and the utilization of groundwater was not reasonable, which resulted in an average annual decline of 0.353m in the water table of alluvial-diluvial-fan oasis, and an average annual increase of 0.047m in the alluvial-plain. The layout of crop and shelter forest benefits to the utilization of water and land resources. The development of oasis economy is at low level, and its eco-economic function is weak.
This paper investigates the discrete-time recurrent neural networks and aims to extend the previous works with symmetric connection matrix to the asymmetric connection matrix. We provide the sufficient conditions of existence for asymptotical stability of fixed point, flip and fold bifurcations, Marotto's chaos. Besides, we state the conditions of existence for the bounded trapping region including many fixed points, and attracting set contained in bounded region and chaotic set. To demonstrate the theoretical results of the paper, several numerical examples are provided. The theorems in this paper are available more than in the previous works.
An automatic defect testing system is dealt with in this article. It includes two parts, defect feature extraction, and defect classification and sizing. Defect feature extraction is carried out by adaptive filter deconvolution. The time delay between two consecutive taps of the adaptive filter is one half cycle of the ultrasonic echo to be processed. Wideband ultrasonic defect echoes of center frequency 1.2 MHz generally have 2-4 cycles and 100 200 data points for a 50 MHz sampling rate. After deconvolution, data are reduced to 4-8 points, and the frequency bandwidth is greatly extended. As a result, the defect features stand out. The deconvolved defect echoes are presented to an artificial neural network (ANN) for automatic defect classification and sizing. Two application examples are given in this article, exact classification and reasonable sizing accuracy have been achieved.
The tolerant rough set classifier (TRSC) was introduced for land cover classification. TRSC uses a tolerance relation to define the tolerant rough set of each object to be classified, and then classifies the object using the relative frequency of each class in the lower approximation or boundary of its tolerant rough set. According to the overall accuracy, the k coefficient, the total normalized probability of misclassification (TNPM) and McNemar's test, the result of TRSC was better than that of the minimum distance classifier (MDC), and similar to those of the maximum likelihood classifier (MLC) and the multiplayer perceptron (MLP).
The grid concept has recently emerged as a vision of future network based computing, by enabling seamless integration of computing systems and clusters, data storage, specialized networks and sophisticated analysis and visualization software. Intelligent agents can play an important role in helping achieve the grid vision. In this paper we propose a model for agent-based grid computing from the implementation point of view. Based on MAGE, a multi-agent framework, we present a reference implementation of this agent-based grid computing model called AGEGC. We believe that AGEGC will be a useful platform for research on agent-based grid computing. (c) 2005 Published by Elsevier Inc.
In this paper, we consider a multi-agent consensus problem with an active leader and variable interconnection topology. The state of the considered leader not only keeps changing but also may not be measured. To track such a leader, a neighbor-based local controller together with a neighbor-based state-estimation rule is given for each autonomous agent. Then we prove that, with the proposed control scheme, each agent can follow the leader if the (acceleration) input of the active leader is known, and the tracking error is estimated if the input of the leader is unknown. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Based on the introduction of the traditional mathematical models of neurons in general-purpose neurocomputer, a novel all-purpose mathematical model-Double synaptic weight neuron (DSWN) is presented, which can simulate all kinds of neuron architectures, including Radial-Basis-Function (RBF) and Back-propagation (BP) models, etc. At the same time, this new model is realized using hardware and implemented in the new CASSANN-II neurocomputer that can be used to form various types of neural networks with multiple mathematical models of neurons. In this paper, the flexibility of the new model has also been described in constructing neural networks and based on the theory of Biomimetic pattern recognition (BPR) and high-dimensional space covering, a recognition system of omni directionally oriented rigid objects on the horizontal surface and a face recognition system had been implemented on CASSANN-H neurocomputer. The result showed DSWN neural network has great potential in pattern recognition.
In speaker-independent speech recognition, the disadvantage of the most diffused technology (HMMs, or Hidden Markov models) is not only the need of many more training samples, but also long train time requirement. This paper describes the use of Biomimetic pattern recognition (BPR) in recognizing some mandarin continuous speech in a speaker-independent manner. A speech database was developed for the course of study. The vocabulary of the database consists of 15 Chinese dish's names, the length of each name is 4 Chinese words. Neural networks (NNs) based on Multi-weight neuron (MWN) model are used to train and recognize the speech sounds. The number of MWN was investigated to achieve the optimal performance of the NNs-based BPR. This system, which is based on BPR and can carry out real time recognition reaches a recognition rate of 98.14% for the first option and 99.81% for the first two options to the persons from different provinces of China speaking common Chinese speech. Experiments were also carried on to evaluate Continuous density hidden Markov models (CDHMM), Dynamic time warping (DTW) and BPR for speech recognition. The Experiment results show that BPR outperforms CDHMM and DTW especially in the cases of samples of a finite size.
This paper presents an intelligent methodology for diagnosing incipient faults in rotating machinery. In this fault diagnosis system, wavelet neural network techniques are used in combination with a new evolutionary learning algorithm. This new evolutionary learning algorithm is based on a hybrid of the constriction factor approach for particle swarm optimization (PSO) technique and the gradient descent (GD) technique, and is thus called HGDPSO. The HGDPSO is developed in such a way that a constriction factor approach for particle swarm optimization (CFA for PSO) is applied as a based level search, which can give a good direction to the optimal global region, and a local search gradient descent (GD) algorithm is used as a fine tuning to determine the optimal solution at the final. The effectiveness of the HGDPSO based WNN is demonstrated through the classification of the fault signals in rotating machinery. The simulated results show its feasibility and validity. (C) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Artificial neural networks (ANN) are non-linear mapping structures analogous to the functioning of the human brain. In this study, we take the ANN approach to model and predict the occurrence of dust storms in Northwest China, by using a combination of daily mean meteorological measurements and dust storm occurrence. The performance of the ANN model in simulating dust storm occurrences is compared with a stepwise regression model. The correlation coefficients between the observed and the estimated dust storm occurrences obtained from the neural network procedure are found to be significantly higher than those obtained from the regression model with the same input data. The prediction tests show that the ANN models used in this study have the potential of forecasting dust storm occurrence in Northwest China by using conventional meteorological variables. (C) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Sequence-derived structural and physicochemical features have frequently been used in the development of statistical learning models for predicting proteins and peptides of different structural, functional and interaction profiles. PROFEAT (Protein Features) is a web server for computing commonly-used structural and physicochemical features of proteins and peptides from amino acid sequence. It computes six feature groups composed of ten features that include 51 descriptors and 1447 descriptor values. The computed features include amino acid composition, dipeptide composition, normalized Moreau-Broto autocorrelation, Moran autocorrelation, Geary autocorrelation, sequence-order-coupling number, quasi-sequence-order descriptors and the composition, transition and distribution of various structural and physicochemical properties. In addition, it can also compute previous autocorrelations descriptors based on user-defined properties. Our computational algorithms were extensively tested and the computed protein features have been used in a number of published works for predicting proteins of functional classes, protein-protein interactions and MHC-binding peptides. PROFEAT is accessible at http:// jing.cz3.nus.edu.sg/cgi-bin/prof/prof.cgi.
Protein sequence contains clues to its function. Functional prediction from sequence presents a challenge particularly for proteins that have low or no sequence similarity to proteins of known function. Recently, machine learning methods have been explored for predicting functional class of proteins from sequence-derived properties independent of sequence similarity which showed promising potential for low- and non-homologous proteins. These methods can thus be explored as potential tools to complement alignment- and clustering-based methods for predicting protein function. This article reviews the strategies, current progresses, and underlying difficulties in using machine learning methods for predicting the functional class of proteins. The relevant software and web-servers are described. The reported prediction performances in the application of these methods are also presented, which need to be interpreted with caution as they are dependent on such factors as datasets used and choice of parameters.
The displacement and deformations of rock mass due to underground mining has often resulted in major disasters throughout the world, Frequently inflicting heavy losses of life and damage to property. And these disasters have motivated the development of rock mass mechanics. The prediction of displacement of rock mass and their surface effects is an important problem of the rock mass mechanics ill the excavation activities especially the coal and metal mining in mountainous areas. Based oil results of the statistical analysis of a large amount of measured data in mining engineering, the fundamental fuzzy model of displacements and deformations of rock mass is established by using the theory of fuzzy probability measures. The theories of both two- and three-dimensional problems are developed and applied to the analysis of engineering problems in excavation and underground mining ill Mountainous areas. The agreement of the theoretical results with the field measurements shows that Our model is satisfactory and the formulae obtained are valid and thus can be effectively used for predicting the displacements and deformations and the safety evaluation of the buildings on the ground. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The activities/properties of two molecules with identical formula but different configuration states of the asymmetric atoms are different. Thus, usually the common topological indices are not suitable. In this study, the chiral topological indices were obtained by extending A(mi) indices suggested by our laboratory and molecular connectivity indices. The modified topologial indices have been used for the studies on D2 for dopamine receptor and a receptor activities of fourteen N-alkylated 3-(3-hydroxypyenyl)-piperidines. It has been observed that selected variables possess low correlations. The results obtained by using multiple regression analysis and artificial neural networks are satisfactory. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been used to treat a variety of neurological disorders including epilepsy. However, we have limited knowledge about effective target areas, optimal stimulation parameters, and long-term effect of DBS on epileptic seizures. Here we examined the effects of DBS of the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) on amygdala-kindled seizures. Microwire electrodes were implanted into the SNr and amygdala of adult male rats. When stage 5-kindled seizures were achieved by daily amygdala kindling, high frequency stimulation was delivered to the SNr bilaterally 1 s after cessation of kindling. Our DBS protocol completely blocked kindled seizures in 10 out of 23 (43.5%) rats studied. Furthermore, when the same amygdala kindling procedure was performed 24 h later without DBS, the kindling failed to elicit any seizure signs in 6 of these 10 rats. Some of the post-DBS period of seizure suppression lasted for up to 4 days. In other 3 rats, only mild stage 1 to 2 seizures appeared following amygdala kindling. Only I of the 10 rats for which DBS had blocked kindled seizures exhibited full-scale 5 stage-kindled seizures 24 h after DBS. These results suggest that highly plastic neural networks are involved in amygdala-kindled seizures and that DBS, if well timed with the onset of amygdala kindling, may exert long lasting effects on the networks that may prevent the recurrence of kindled seizures. (c) 2006 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The global exponential stability is investigated for a class of generalized Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with discrete delays. By means of the combination of the nonlinear measure approach and constructing a novel Lyapunov functional together with some nonlinear functional analysis and inequality techniques, general sufficient conditions are obtained for the existence, uniqueness and global exponential stability of equilibrium of the delayed neural networks, which are mild and independent of the delays. The new criteria do not require the boundedness, monotonicity and differentiability assumptions of the normal and the delayed activation functions. Our results generalize and improve many existing ones. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper proposes a distributed control approach called local interactions with local coordinate systems (LILCS) to multirobot hunting tasks in unknown environments, where a team of mobile robots hunts a target called evader, which will actively try to escape with a safety strategy. This robust approach can cope with accumulative errors of wheels and imperfect communication networks. Computer simulations show the validity of the proposed approach.
Since the triangle orientation discrimination threshold (TOD) measure was proposed, good progress has been made in some aspects, Such as experimental validation, field performance, and TOD sensor performance model. However, what is still missing is a TOD curve prediction model similar to the minimum resolvable temperature difference (MRTD) equation. In this paper, an equation-based TOD performance model was first developed for scanning thermal imagers. Specifically, the spatial distribution of the triangle standard test pattern is described quantitatively. The resolution transfer characteristic of the scanning infrared imagers is modeled with linear system theory, and system noise is characterized by introducing a three-dimensional noise model. The modulation effect of overall subsystems of scanning thermal imager on the non-periodic standard triangle pattern is analyzed. The matched filter idea is adopted to characterize quantitatively the spatial-temporal integration of the human visual system to signal and various noise components over the triangle pattern area, and the perceived signal-to-noise ratio for the scanning infrared imager is derived. From this, a TOD performance theoretical model is established. Comparisons with experimental results show that this theoretical model gives reasonable prediction of the TOD performance curve for scanning thermal imagers. Although more tests and modifications are required, these preliminary results suggest that this model can be developed into a model that predicts the TOD for all kinds of sensors. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Over the last two decades, theoretical design and circuit implementation of various chaos generators have been a focal subject of increasing interest due to their promising applications in various real-world chaos-based technologies and information systems. In particular, generating complex multiscroll chaotic attractors via simple electronic circuits has seen rapid development. This article offers an overview of the subject on multiscroll chaotic attractors generation, including some fundamental theories, design methodologies, circuit implementations and practical applications. More precisely, the article first describes some effective design methods using piecewise-linear functions, cellular neural networks, nonlinear modulating functions, circuit component design, switching manifolds, multifolded tori formation, and so on. Based on different approaches, computer simulation and circuit implementation of various multiscroll chaotic attractors are then discussed in detail, with some theoretical proofs and laboratory experiments presented for verification and demonstration. It is then followed by some discussion on potential applications of multiscroll chaotic attractors, including secure and digital communications, synchronous prediction, random bit generation, and so on. The article is finally concluded with some future research outlooks, putting the important subject into engineering perspective.
Computational methods for predicting compounds of specific pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic, or toxicological property are Useful for facilitating drug discovery and drug safety evaluation. The quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) and quantitative structure-property relationship (QSPR) methods are the most successfully used statistical learning methods for predicting compounds of specific property. More recently, other statistical learning methods such as neural networks and support vector machines have been explored for predicting compounds of higher structural diversity than those covered by QSAR and QSPR. These methods have shown promising potential in a number Of Studies. This article is intended to review the strategies, current progresses and underlying difficulties in using statistical learning methods for predicting compounds of specific property. It also evaluates algorithms commonly used for representing structural and physicochemical properties of compounds.
In this paper, two improved constrained learning algorithms that arc able to guarantee to obtain better generalization performance are proposed. These two algorithms are substantially on-line learning ones. The cost term for the additional functionality of the first improved algorithm is selected based on the first-order derivatives of the neural activation at hidden layers, while the one of the second improved algorithm is selected based on second-order derivatives of the neural activation at hidden layers and output layer. In the course of training, the cost terms selected from these additional cost functions can penalize the input-to-output mapping sensitivity or high-frequency components included in training data. Finally, theoretical justifications and simulation results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of the two proposed learning algorithms. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Expression microarray analysis is one of the most popular molecular diagnostic techniques in the post-genomic era. However, this technique faces the fundamental problem of potential cross-hybridization. This is a pervasive problem for both oligonucleotide and cDNA microarrays; it is considered particularly problematic for the latter. No comprehensive multivariate predictive modeling has been performed to understand how multiple variables contribute to (cross-)hybridization.
Based on the analysis of the subjectivity of wetland boundary criteria and their causes at present, this paper suggested that, under the condition that the mechanism of wetland formation process has not been understood, "black box" method of System Theory can be used to delineate wetland boundaries scientifically. After analyzing the difference of system construction among aquatic habitats, wetlands and uplands, the lower limit of rooted plants was chosen as the lower boundary criterion of wetlands. Because soil diagnostic horizon is the result of the long-term interaction among all environments, and it is less responsive than vegetation to short-term change, soil diagnostic horizon was chosen as the indicator to delineate wetland upper boundary, which lies at the thinning-out point of soil diagnostic horizon. Case study indicated that it was feasible using the lower limit of rooted plants and the thinning-out point of soil diagnostic horizon as criteria to delineate the lower and upper boundaries of wetland. In the study area, the thinning-out line of albic horizon was coincident with the 55.74m contour line, the maximum horizon error was less than 1m, and the maximum vertical error less than 0.04m. The problem on wetland definition always arises on the boundaries. Having delineated wetland boundaries, wetlands can be defined as follows: wetlands are the transitional zones between uplands and deepwater habitats, they are a kind of azonal complex that are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water, with the lower boundary lying at the lower limit of rooted plants, and the upper boundary at the thinning-out line of upland soil diagnostic horizon.
As a technology used widely in lithology and structural interpretation, seismic attribute technology has been playing an important role in coal and oil exploration. Based on 3-D seismic exploration data of coal seam 13-1 in the Xieqiao colliery, Huainan coal field of China, 28 seismic attributes axe extracted. Through analysis of seismic attributes, four usable seismic attributes, such as average-peak-amplitude, kurtosis-inamplitude, maximum-absolute-amplitude and slope rate of instantaneous frequency, are selected as the basic analysis parameters of prediction models of coal thickness. Combined with the real drill data, the prediction models between coal thickness and multi attributes are established by using analytical methods of multivariant polynomial regression and BP neural networks(BPNN), and error analysis of predicting coal thickness is carried out. From the comparison of prediction results of coal thickness of coal seam 13-1 in the Xieqiao colliery, Huainan coal field of China by using these two models, it is concluded that the BPNN model has higher accuracy in predicting coal thickness.
This paper deals with the possible benefits of perceptual learning in artificial intelligence. On the one hand, perceptual learning is more and more studied in neurobiology and is now considered as an essential part of any living system. In fact, perceptual learning and cognitive learning are both necessary for learning and often depend on each other. On the other hand, many works in machine learning are concerned with "abstraction" in order to reduce the amount of complexity related to some learning tasks. In the abstraction framework, perceptual learning can be seen as a specific process that learns how to transform the data before the traditional learning task itself takes place. In this paper, we argue that biologically inspired perceptual learning mechanisms could be used to build efficient low-level abstraction operators that deal with real-world data. To illustrate this, we present an application where perceptual-learning-inspired metaoperators are used to perform an abstraction on an autonomous robot visual perception. The goal of this work is to enable the robot to learn how to identify objects it encounters in its-environment.
In this paper, a modified learning algorithm to obtain better generalization performance is proposed. The cost terms of this new algorithm are selected based on the second-order derivatives of the neural activation at the hidden layers and the first-order derivatives of the neural activation at the output layer. It can be guaranteed that in the course of training, the additional cost terms for this algorithm can penalize both the input-to-output mapping sensitivity and the high frequency components to obtain better generalization performance. Finally, theoretical justifications and simulation results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed learning algorithm.
A new method for selecting features from protein sequences is proposed in this paper. First, the protein sequences are converted into fixed-dimensional feature vectors. Then, a subset of features is selected using relative entropy method and used as the inputs for Support Vector Machine (SVM). Finally, the trained SVM classifier is utilized to classify protein sequences into certain known protein families. Experimental results over proteins obtained from PlR database and GPCRs have shown that our proposed approach is really effective and efficient in selecting features from protein sequences.
This paper proposes a new method for tumor classification using gene expression data, which mainly contains three steps. Firstly, the original DNA inicroarray gene expression data are selected using t-statistics. Secondly, the selected genes are modeled by Independent Component Analysis (ICA). Finally, Support Vector Machine (SVM) is used to classify the modeling data. To show the validity of the proposed method, we apply it to classify two DNA microarray data sets involving various human normal and tumor tissue samples. The experimental results show that the method is efficient and feasible.
Quantitative structure-pharmacokinetic relationships (QSPkR) have increasingly been used for the prediction of the pharmacokinetic properties of drug leads. Several QSPkR models have been developed to predict the total clearance (CLtot,) of a compound. These models give good prediction accuracy but they are primarily based oil it limited number of related Compounds which are significantly lesser in number and diversity than the 503 Compounds with known CLtot, described in the literature. It is desirable to examine whether these and other statistical learning methods call be used for predicting the CLtot, of a more diverse set of compounds. In this work, three statistical learning methods, general regression neural network (GRNN), support vector regression (SVR) and k-nearest neighbour (KNN) were explored for modeling the CLtot, of all of the 503 known compounds. Six different sets of molecular descriptors, DS-MIXED, DS-3DMoRSE, DS-ATS, DS-GETAWAY, DS-RDF and DS-WHIM, were evaluated for their usefulness in the prediction of CLtot, GRNN-, SVR- and KNN-developed models have average-fold errors in the range of 1.63 to 1.96, 1.66-1.95 and 1.90-2.23, respectively. For the best GRNN-, SVR- and KNN-developed models, the percentage of compounds with predicted CLtot, within two-fold error of actual values are in the range of 61.9-74.3% and are comparable or slightly better than those of earlier Studies. QSPkR models developed by using DS-MIXED, which is a collection of constitutional, geometrical, topological and electrotopological descriptors, generally give better prediction accuracies than those developed by using other descriptor sets. These results suggest that GRNN, SVR, and their consensus model are potentially useful for predicting QSPkR properties of drug leads. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Data preparation is an important and critical step in neural network modeling for complex data analysis and it has a huge impact on the success of a wide variety of complex data analysis tasks, such as data mining and knowledge discovery. Although data preparation in neural network data analysis is important, some existing literature about the neural network data preparation are scattered, and there is no systematic study about data preparation for neural network data analysis. In this study, we first propose an integrated data preparation scheme as a systematic study for neural network data analysis. In the integrated scheme, a survey of data preparation, focusing on problems with the data and corresponding processing techniques, is then provided. Meantime, some intelligent data preparation solution to some important issues and dilemmas with the integrated scheme are discussed in detail. Subsequently, a cost-benefit analysis framework for this integrated scheme is presented to analyze the effect of data preparation on complex data analysis. Finally, a typical example of complex data analysis from the financial domain is provided in order to show the application of data preparation techniques and to demonstrate the impact of data preparation on complex data analysis.
In this paper, a new effective model is proposed to forecast how long the postoperative patients suffered from non-small cell lung cancer will survive. The new effective model which is based on the extreme learning machine (ELM) and principal component analysis (PCA) can forecast successfully the postoperative patients' survival time. The new model obtains better prediction accuracy and faster convergence rate which the model using backpropagation (BP) algorithm and the Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) algorithm to forecast the postoperative patients' survival time can not achieve. Finally, simulation results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of our proposed new model.
Recognizing and certifying quasars through the research on spectra is an important method in the field of astronomy. This paper presents a novel adaptive method for the automated recognition of quasars based on the radial basis function neural networks (RBFN). The proposed method is composed of the following three parts: (1) The feature space is reduced by the PCA (the principal component analysis) on the normalized input spectra; (2) An adaptive RBFN is constructed and trained in this reduced space. At first, the K-means clustering is used for the initialization, then based on the sum of squares errors and a gradient descent optimization technique, the number of neurons in the hidden layer is adaptively increased to improve the recognition performance; (3) The quasar spectra recognition is effectively carried out by the above trained RBFN. The author's proposed adaptive RBFN is shown to be able to not only overcome the difficulty of selecting the number of neurons in hidden layer of the traditional RBFN algorithm, but also increase the stability and accuracy of recognition of quasars. Besides, the proposed method is particularly useful for automatic voluminous spectra processing produced from a large-scale sky survey project, such as our LAMOST, due to its efficiency.
In this Letter, the dynamics of Cohen-Grossberg neural networks model are investigated. The activation functions are only assumed to be Lipschitz continuous, which provide a much wider application domain for neural networks than the previous results. By means of the extended nonlinear measure approach, new and relaxed sufficient conditions for the existence, uniqueness and global exponential stability of equilibrium of the neural networks are obtained. Moreover, an estimate for the exponential convergence rate of the neural networks is precisely characterized. Our results improve those existing ones. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Prediction of protein classification is an important topic in molecular biology. This is because it is able to not only provide useful information from the viewpoint of structure itself, but also greatly stimulate the characterization of many other features of proteins that may be closely correlated with their biological functions. In this paper, the LogitBoost, one of the boosting algorithms developed recently, is introduced for predicting protein structural classes. It performs classification using a regression scheme as the base learner, which can handle multi-class problems and is particularly superior in coping with noisy data. It was demonstrated that the LogitBoost outperformed the support vector machines in predicting the structural classes for a given dataset, indicating that the new classifier is very promising. It is anticipated that the power in predicting protein structural classes as well as many other biomacromolecular attributes will be further strengthened if the LogitBoost and some other existing algorithms can be effectively complemented with each other. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Snake-like robots that behaves biological snakes' characteristics have possibility to make them supremely adapted for environment. In this paper, we firstly design a snake-like robot controller with cyclic inhibitory CPG model, and then analyze the stability of single neuron, CPG model and the neuron oscillator network (NON). By implementing this control architecture to a simulator with consideration of mechanical dynamics of a real snake-like robot named "Perambulator-I", we present preliminary policies about parameter setting of the CPG controller for serpentine locomotion. Moreover, we show that "Perambulator-I" can successfully exhibit serpentine locomotion by using controller output of the proposed architecture. This paper provides a realistic approach to design an artificial CPG controller.
In this paper, a formation control algorithm for mobile robots is developed based on a relative motion sensory system such as a pan/tilt camera vision system, without the need for global sensing and communication between robots. This is achieved by employing the velocity variations, instead of actual velocities, as the control inputs. Simulations and experimental results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed control methods.
Being hyper-redundant, modularized and continuously driving, link-type robots have high mobility under unstructured environment as the nature snake does. In this study, we have experimented on the nature snake and analyzed the link-type structure's character in detail, and then we have proposed a novel link-type shape shifting modular robot. The key advantage of this design over other link-type vehicle is their adaptability and flexibility for its various configurations. Robot in such link type can change its configuration to adapt to the environment and mission by reconfiguring and shape shifting. A standard module is mainly composed of a link arm, a link handle, an offset Pitch joint, an offset Yaw joint, and the track driven system. The adjacent modules are connected through the link arm and the link handle. The multi-module robot can change it shape by the motion of the offset joints. After modification of the standard module, a two-module robot and a three-module robot's assembled structure have been designed respectively. After planning of their locomotion configuration, locomotion experiments of these two robots have been made on the slope, over the trench, up the stairs and on the debris. Experiments have demonstrated that such kind structure permits good mobility and high flexibility under unstructured environment. Being simple, small and portable, the tracked robot platform series have been developed for potential application such as Urban Search and Rescue (USAR) efforts, and planetary exploration.
A remote-controlled Police Dogbot, which is a new type of mobile robot based on a living German shepherd dog, is proposed and its experimental tested schematic system is implemented. The Dogbot can achieve very flexible movement without complicated mechanical structure and complex control algorithm, but through living animal body and its intelligence. The motion control of this mobile robot is the operant behavior control of the animal. There are many possible important applications for the prototype developed in this paper, such as independently rescuing hostages, scouting, and public services et al. The key problems in Police Dogbot design, such as system architecture, operant behavior control, vision monitoring and feedback, wireless communication etc., are discussed and studied by experiments. The voice command system allows a prompt and effective guide of working dog. The test results show that this Police Dogbot, which combines life with electronic sensing, navigation technology and robotics, is a very valid mobile robot, and leads to a new branch for robot research.
This paper presents a design method for a novel configured stereo vision navigation system for mobile robots, which is a catadioptric sensor called OSVOD (omnidirectional stereo vision optical device) based on a common perspective camera coupled with two hyperbolic mirrors. As the hyperbolic mirrors ensure a single viewpoint (SVP) the incident light rays are easily found from the points of the image. In OSVOD the two hyperbolic mirrors, which aligned coaxially and separately, share one focus that coincides with the camera center. So the geometry of OSVOD naturally ensures matched epipolar lines in the two images of the scene. The separation between the two mirrors provides a large baseline and eventually leads to a precise result. The properties mentioned above make OSVOD especially suitable for omnidirectional stereo vision because depth estimation is simple, fast and precise. This proposed system can be used for detecting obstacles by mobile robots, automatic mapping of environments and machine vision where fast and real-time calculations are needed.
Periodic locomotion of animal bodies with large degree of freedom is known to be realized by decentralized control using network of central pattern generators (CPGs) that are distributed in spinal cord (in vertebrates) or nerve cords (in invertebrates). In this paper, optimization of a decentralized controller for a snake-like robot based on CPG-network is presented. The controller is composed of CPGs on every robot joints and connections between them. Oscillations of CPGs are coordinated by propagating them each other. For several types of network structure, genetic algorithm (GA) is used to optimize neural parameters, i.e. CPG parameters and synaptic weights. As a result, we derived a CPG-network that is optimal in terms of moving speed.
Computing routing information to support pervasive applications is different from that on the Internet. When the user moves freely from one place to another, the frequently method of computation and communication of routing information on Internet is often a waste of resources. In order to improve the computation of routing information on Internet to support pervasive applications, we put forward a new model of wireless networks and use neural networks as a fast tool to compute shortest paths on-demand on a time-dependent wireless network. The high-speed and stability of the method is proved. It also makes a new study on solving the optimization, but not NP-hard problems by neural networks.
In this paper, we deal with the yaw control problem of a small-scale helicopter mounted on an experimental platform. The yaw dynamics of helicopter involve input nonlinearity, time-varying parameters and the couplings between main and tail rotor. An attractive control strategy that combines neural networks with traditional adaptive controls has been successfully used for yaw control with input nonlinearities. In contrast to conventional adaptation law, the sliding condition is taken as the objective function instead of the error function used in MIT rule. From the concept of the sliding mode control, the adaptive controller guarantees the stability of the closed-loop system and convergence of the output tracking error to a desired bound, even if the model parameters are unknown or in the presence of disturbance. The simulation results are further compared with those obtained by normal PID control to demonstrate the improvements of the proposed algorithm.
For a redundantly-actuated wheeled mobile robot, the squeeze force between the robot body and its wheels does not contribute to the motion of the robot, but to squeeze the related rigid bodies each other. It is good to control the squeeze force, regulate it to zero if possible, from the view of energy efficiency or life span of joint components.
In this paper we consider some control problems of switched non-homogeneous linear systems. First, the set stability of switched non-homogeneous linear systems is considered. It is proved that as the linear parts have a common quadratic Lyapunov function the set stability is assured. The problem of searching smallest attracting set is then considered. Then we assume the switching law is controllable and investigate the controllability condition within the attracting region. Finally, we consider the aggregation and the control of aggregation of flocking behavior. Particularly, the results obtained are implemented to analyzing and manipulating of a group of mobile robots.
In this paper, we consider the coordination control of a group of autonomous mobile agents with multiple leaders. Different interconnection topologies are investigated. At first, a necessary and sufficient condition is proved in the case of fixed interconnection topology. Then a sufficient condition is proposed when the interconnection topology is switched. With a simple first-order dynamics model by using the neighborhood rule, both results show that the group behavior of the agents will converge to the polytope formed by the leaders.
In this paper, we consider the consensus problem of multi-agent systems with an active leader and variable interconnection topology. In our problem the leader is active, that is, its states keep changing and may not be measured. To track such a leader, a neighbor-based control rule and state-estimation rule, both with time delay, are given for each autonomous agent. Then the tracking error is estimated. Particularly, it is proved that each agent can follow the leader if the (acceleration) input of the active leader is known.
The concept of asymptotic Nash-equilibria with respect to stochastic performance index is introduced, a decentralized control law is constructed for Large Population Dynamic Multi-Agent Systems (LPDMAS) with cost-coupled stochastic preformance indexes by using the state aggregation method. By the limit probability theory, it is shown that the closed-loop system is almost surely uniformly stable, and the control law is asymptotically optimal.
Collective behaviors of multi-agent systems are important starting points in the study of complex systems, and Vicsek's model is a typical model of multi-agent systems. In addition to its simplicity, it preserves some key features of complex systems, such as dynamic behaviors, local interactions and changing neighborhood graph. Jadbabaie et al. analyzed the synchronization of a linearized Vicsek's model, and showed that if a certain connectivity condition is satisfied, then all agents will move in the same direction eventually. An unresolved key problem is when such a connectivity is satisfied. In this paper, we will first show that each agent's heading will converge in Vicsek's model, and will then give a sufficient condition imposed only on the agents' initial states and parameters to make Vicsek's model synchronized. Finally, we will give a counterexample to show that connectivity of the neighbor graph is not sufficient for synchronization of the Vicsek's model if the initial headings are allowed to be in [-pi, pi). This reveals an essential difference between the linearized Vicsek's model and the original Vicsek's model.
In this paper, we discuss the minimal positive realizations for nth-order rational transfer function of a discrete time-invariant linear single-input-single-output (SISO) system with negative poles. By the constructive method, the necessary and sufficient conditions are provided for these transfer functions to have a positive realization of dimension n. With the benefit of these results, an improvement is made on the existing results about the positive decomposition problem in positive system theory. Numerical examples are employed to validate the results.
A new fuzzy control design for way-point tracking control problem of ship autopilot is proposed. To effectively control ships in a designed trajectory is always an important task for ship manipulators. The paper gives the design method of a kind of fuzzy autopilot for way-point tracking control system. The fuzzy control rules are constructed based on human operator's manipulating experience. This control design approach greatly simplifies the control design process and the control algorithm, and is easily applied to practical ship tracking system. Simulation results show that the proposed fuzzy autopilot has desired performance with high accuracy of course keeping, short time of rudder actions and less frequency of changing rudder direction.
A brand new architecture of neural networks has been introduced, In this architecture, outputs of direction basis function neurons[1] are with different priorities. It has been discussed that the Priority Ordered Direction Basis Function Neural Network (PODBFNN). The Priority Ordered Direction Basis Function Nets (PODBFN) for object recognition has been analyzed. The experiment shows that the learning speed of the PODBFN are much faster than that of the multilayered feedforward neural networks with existing BP algorithms.
This study describes a method to obtain obstacle information omnidirectionally by a novel omnidirectional stereo vision system. Such information is important for mobile robots navigation. The omnidirectional stereo vision system is based on a common perspective camera coupled with two hyperbolic mirrors. Given two images of a space point acquired by this vision system, the 3D coordinates of the point can be calculated by means of triangulation. Then the study presents a full model of calibrating this vision system, which can be easily generalized to all kinds of catadioptic sensors. The images captured by the stereo vision system are unwrapped into panoramic images, which are then examined for stereo matching along vertical epiploar lines. An algorithm of the quick stereo edge matching method based on Canny edge detection is proposed. In the end we show the result of obstacle detection.
Due to the variety of applications and their importance, wireless sensor networks (WSNs) will need to be connected to the Internet. Some approaches have been proposed to connect wireless sensor networks to the existing TCP/IP networks, such as the application-level gateways or overlay networks. However, most existing approaches have to consume network bandwidth and node energy to maintain the static network structure which is neither scalable nor reliable. In this paper, we describe the Mobile agent Based Real-time (MBR) mechanism which use of the mobile software agent (MSA) paradigm to design a dynamic infrastructure for WSNs access on the Internet. We present a agent migration protocol based on reinforcement learning method to reduce the query delay and improve the total performance.
The ability of cognition and recognition for complex environment is very important for a real autonomous robot. A new scene analysis method using Kernel Principal Component Analysis (PCA) for mobile robot based on multi-sonar-ranger data is put forward. The principle of classification by Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Kernel-PCA, and the BP neural network approach to extract the largest k eigenvectors; are introduced briefly. Next PCA, Kernel-PCA and the BP neural network methods are applied in the corridor scene analysis and classification for the mobile robots based on sonar data. At last the experimental results using PCA, Kernel-PCA and the BP neural network are compared and such conclusions are drawn: in common corridor scene classification, the Kernel-PCA method has advantage over the ordinary PCA, and the BP Neural Network approach can also get satisfactory result.
The simultaneous localization and map building (SLAM) problem is critical to the research of mobile robot. Enabling robots to build the map of corridor environment is the basis for them to accomplish the tasks independently in the corridor environment. In this paper, the characteristic of the corridor environment is analyzed, the reason why it is hard to apply the general particle filter to solving the SLAM problem in the corridor environment is explored, and a novel two-step particle filter SLAM approach is presented. The experimental results demonstrate this approach can solve the correlation among states without the need of appending any artificial landmarks beforehand in the corridor environment in the process of SLAM.
A hybrid control method for telerobotic systems which considers simultaneously the control and decision-making issues is presented in this paper. Telerobotic system is a typical hybrid system which contains both continuous-time and discrete event dynamics. Specifically, the robot can be considered as a continuous-time system modeled customarily by differential equations or difference equations, and the human operator whose function is to generate commands for robot located in the remote side, however, can be modeled by an automaton. As a result, telerobotic system is a heterogeneous system and the heterogeneity can be characterized by the fact that humans are intelligent while robots arc fast, powerful and accurate. From the point of view of control, a hybrid framework is of key importance for the study of such a system. In this paper, the specific problems to be discussed include developing a framework in which both the robotic system and the human operator can be modeled simultaneously, and introducing how to apply this framework in a real teleoperated manipulator system. The main contribution of this paper is the development of a mathematical model which incorporates human intervention into an autonomous control model.
Path planning is a complicated and challenge problem in mobile robotics if a mobile robot is expected operated in the real world. Human-Machine Interaction (HMI) could play an important role in this process and the robot can get help from the user during path planning. In this paper, we introduce a smooth path planning method for an intelligent wheelchair (IW) based on HMI. The user first presents some key points on a known environment map to the system via HCI. Then these key points will be used by IW as path skeleton points for generating a smooth collision-free path. Under the cooperation of the user and IW, smooth path planning becomes easy and convenient. Simulation results show that the proposed method works well and very convenient for the user.
In this paper a novel prediction method of elbow torque from EMG signal using SVM is proposed. How to model the relations between EMG signals and various kinematical aspects of the movement behavior is a difficult problem in the researches of neurophysiology and biomechanics. Traditional prediction methods include using neural networks to model the relations. However, these methods suffer from several problems, such as local minima, the difficulty of the selection of the model, etc. To address these problems, support vector machine is adopted to construct the nonlinear model. The efficiency of our proposed method is proved by experiment results.
When the Autonomous Mobile Robot(AMR) is popular in unknown environment, accurate estimation of SOC(State of Charge) is becoming one of the primary challenges in Autonomous Mobile Robots research. However, as defects of the Extended Kalman Filter(EKF) in nonlinear estimation, there exists estimated error. which affects the estimation accuracy, when it is adopted in nonlinear estimation of a battery system. In order to vield the higher accuracy of SOC estimation, a novel method-Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF) was employed in SOC estimation for a battery system. The EKF and UKF are compared through experiments. Experimental results show that the UKF is superior to the EKF in battery SOC estimation for AMR.
More and more efforts have been devoted to Internet based teleoperation systems of mobile robots. However, current available transport protocol TCP and UDP could not be used directly. New transport protocol suitable for mobile robot in wireless networks should be presented. This paper proposes a transport protocol for teleoperation systems of mobile robots based on TFRC, named TFRC-PROBE. It uses a probe host to get the wireless loss rate in real time and discriminate wireless loss from congestion loss. The results of NS-2 simulation shows that, compared with TFRC, its performance is improved observably, while attaining inter-fairness with TCP and intra-fairness with TFRC-PROBE itself.
The Player/Stage is a promising software architecture used in multiple and distributed robots control researches. But the continuous TCP data stream communication mechanism which it uses, as other robot control systems do, brings heavy burden both to the overall network and its clients. The mechanism of publish/notification is introduced here to reduce the communication between the Players and their clients. Through adding a server computer which connects to both the Players and their clients, the clients register conditions of their interested data to the server and get notified from the server when the conditions are satisfied by data generated from the Player. Not only can the communication between the Players and their clients be effectively reduced and the burden of the network be relieved, but also the clients are freed from continuous listening, receiving and processing the data stream from Players. Some experiments have been made and this mechanism is proved to be able to provide good performance for multiple and distributed robot controls based on Player/Stage.
Tracking odor to its source is the survival instinct of many animals gained in evolution, and that capability can be transferred to robotics. This paper describes a new and practical investigation of biomimetic robots for odor source localization. An embedded mobile robot platform was developed to process multi-tasks. A new odor sensing unit with a special data fusion algorithm was designed to enable fast and realtime sensing. Inspired by animals' behaviour and based on odor predictions, a novel algorithm was designed to locate an odor source. Results of indoor experiments show that the robot can find a static odor source and follow a moving odor source.
The Internet-based teleoperation has become a popular research topic during the recent years. More and more fields are being involved and one of them is the multi-robot systems. Mutti-robot systems have the ability to perform better in a complex environment; however, it is difficult for the robots to complete tasks autonomously, thus a human operator is needed to contribute his ability to direct the behaviors of the robots. Now the Internet can be used as the bridge between the human operator and the multi-robot system. In this paper the behavior coordination of the multiple robots directed by a human operator via the Internet is studied. The architecture of the human directed multi-robot system is presented and a hierarchical automaton model is proposed to describe the decision-making process for the behavior coordination of the Internet-based multi-robot system. An Internet-based tele-robot soccer system is built based on these methods and the details of the system are described.
Fast movement along a predefined path is important for many robot applications, especially in cluster tool robots, requires utilization of the maximum allowable torque range. Robot running along the time-optimal path brings many benefits such as higher productivity. In this paper, moving a delicate object from an initial point to a specified location along a predefined path within the minimum time under a damage-free condition is studied, To achieve this goal, the dynamics of robot is first described as the formulation using arc differential of the predefined path in Cartesian coordinates. Then, the range of acceleration is deducted from the torque limitations, and the method of computing the maximum and minimum acceleration is given. This range can be modified by consideration of the geometrical constraints. Considering the torque constraint on the object, the range of maximum acceleration and velocity are obtained to preserve object safety while the manipulator is carrying it along the curved path. After that, a method to solve the time-optimal problem is presented, and the detailed process is explained. In this way time-optimal trajectory is planned within the maximum allowable range of acceleration and velocity. This algorithm is implemented on a 2-arm, 2-dof cluster tool robot and its validity is proven by simulation result.
Active learning aims at automatically selecting highly informative unseen data for humans to label under the condition that only few labeled samples are ready for use. Most of previous researches in active learning take advantage of supervised learning. Due to semantic gap problem, these existing active learning algorithms are not very effective on lessening human labeling efforts, especially in multiclass applications. In this paper, we propose a novel active learning framework based on unsupervised learning, and implement a hierarchical graph-theoretic clustering active learning system (HIGCALS). HIGCALS outperforms the existing active learning systems in several aspects, such as flexibility in system architecture and simpleness in system upgrade. Experiments on KDDCUP99 data set has demonstrated that HIGCALS can effectively reduce the workload of manual labeling without losing much accuracy.
We present a new knowledge representation called a conceptual network model to create robots that engage in intuitive interaction with humans through natural language. The conceptual network connects natural language concepts with visual perceptions including color perception, shape perception, size perception, and spatial perception. In the implementation of spatial perception, we present a computational model based on spatial template theory to interpret qualitative spatial expressions. Based on the conceptual network model, our mobile robot can recognize the object that the user referred to through natural language. Experimental results show our approach promising.
Based on the SSM/I brightness temperature data, a new Compound Multi-parameter Artificial Neural Network (CMANN) algorithm, is built to retrieve the global ocean surface wind speed at real time in this paper. The result shows that, by adding the brightness temperature of the 85GHz vertical and horizontal polarization channels to the neural networks, the retrieval accuracy of the ocean surface wind speed is improved. The rms error of CMANN decreases with the increasing of the wind speed and therefore there is a better performance at the high wind speed (>15m/s) than at the low wind speed. Compared with the buoy wind, the rms errors are 1.61m/s and 1.46m/s under mixture weather conditions and clear conditions, respectively. For high wind, the wind direction may be given in our paper. An example that high wind vector retrieved from SSM/I data and a comparison with scatterometer are shown.
The paper first introduces the modified two-parameter CFAR algorithm used to detect ship targets in inland waters, and then uses principal curves and neural networks to extract the waterway course. Through comparing the detection results and the extracted waterway course those vessels not complying with water traffic rules and those potential illicit fishing vessels can be easily identified.
There are all sorts of contradictions and intimidations between urbanization and environment objectively. The intimidations of urbanization in arid area mainly come from the growth of resource consumption, the aggravation of environmental pollution and the sprawling expansion of urban land. The restrictions of environment mainly come from the resource condition, the environmental capacity and the ecological menace. The case study of He-Xi Corridor shows that the grey relational degrees between urbanization and environment of the industry-oriented cities are high, of the agriculture-oriented cities are low and of the tourism-oriented cities are relatively high. The changing trends of coupling degrees of He-Xi Corridor and the cities are not unanimous with that of urbanization or environment totally. They embody the coupling state changes of urbanization and environment. In order to realize the harmonious development with environment in arid area, urbanization should change its traditional developmental ideas and pay much attention to water resources and environment.
one of important parameters used for monitoring inland water quality is the concentration of chlorophyll in surface water. Remote sensing provides a convenient and synoptic method for determining water chlorophyll concentration from upwelling radiances. In this study, a scene of Landsat TM data and concurrent in situ water sample were acquired. As neural networks has been proven successful in modeling a variety of geophysical transfer functions. So in. this paper, both regression model and empirical neural network were established to model the relationship between water chlorophyll concentration and satellite-received radiances. It was found that neural network model play much better in accuracy than regression model with Landsat TM visible and near infrared bands as inputs. The relative RMSE for the neural network were < 7%, while the RMSE for regression analysis were less than 25% in general. The dynamic characteristic of Chagan Lake water chlorophyll concentration was simply analyzed, but more work still need to be done to explore the reason for Chagan water chlorophyll contents and the algorithms developed in this study need to be tested with future collected imagery data and in situ samples data.
Two important parameters used for monitoring inland water quality are the concentrations of total dissolved organic carbon (TOC), and total phosphorus (TP) in surface water. Remote sensing provides a convenient and synoptic method for determining those parameters from upwelling radiances. In this study, imagery data and in situ water sample concurrent with Landsat overpass was acquired. As neural networks has been proven successful in modeling a variety of geophysical transfer functions, here, both regression model and empirical neural network were established to simulate the relationship between these two water parameters and the satellite-received radiances. It was found that neural network model played much better in accuracy than regression model with Landsat TM visible and near infrared bands as inputs. The relative RMSE for the neural network were < 7%. while the RMSE for regression analysis were less than 25% in general. Contour maps of TOC concentration and TP were produced with regression and neural network models, these two water quality parameters distribution characteristics were analyzed with ambient background. Future work still need to be done for the dynamic characteristic of Chagan Lake water quality with Landsat TM data, and the algorithms developed in this study need to be tested with multi-date imagery data and other lakes in Songnen Plain, which have developed in similar geological and environmental backgrounds.
Identifying protein-protein interaction sites is crucial for understanding of the principles of biological systems and processes, as well as mutant design. This paper describes a novel method that can predict protein interaction sites in heterocomplexes using information of evolutionary conservation and spatial sequence profile. A predictor was generated to distinguish the interface residues from protein surface region by radial basis neural networks, which is trained by expectation maximization algorithm. Based on a non-redundant data set of heterodimers consisting of 75 protein chains, the efficiency and the effectiveness of our proposed approach can be validated by a better performance such as the accuracy of 0.60, the sensitivity of 58.3% and the specificity of 59.9%.
This paper introduces a novel method of modulation classification for digitally modulated signals in the presence of additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN). This method does not need any prior knowledge of the signals, such as SNR (Signal-to-Noise Ratio), symbol rate and carrier frequency. Four kinds of features are extracted to achieve a tree-based classification approach, and three radial basis function (RBF) neural networks are employed in the classifier. The computer simulation is carried out and the results are presented.
Real-time control of multi-robot coordination system has attracted a lot of attention in recent years. Traditional numerical algorithm is ineffective to perform this task. In this paper, a dual neural network approach is applied to resolve the coordination problem of two redundant robots. By this approach, the joint torque and distributed load can be obtained by optimizing a multiple criteria, and the physical limits of the joint torque and distributed load can be also incorporated into the control scheme. The dual neural network has a simple structure which is composed of only one layer of neuron array. The network configuration is updated by the command signals of desired acceleration of the grasped object, and the output of the network is the manipulator's joint torque. A simulation example is presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the dual neural network method.
In this paper, a new visual positioning method based on corresponding points at two adjacent views is developed for mobile robots. A camera is mounted on a wheeled mobile robot with non-holonomic constraints. The camera whose intrinsic parameters are well calibrated can rotate around an axis perpendicular to the ground plane. The relative orientation and scaled position offsets of the mobile robot are computed from the corresponding points in the common part of the views despite their unknown positions in Cartesian space. The relative orientation is used in a simple visual dead reckoning method to modify the odometry information. Then, based on the relative orientation and modified odometry information, equations are given to determine the position and orientation of the mobile robot. Experiments are performed to verify the effectiveness of the proposed methods.
This paper presents a new method for formation control of multiple underwater fish-like robots. Considering both geometrical and mechanical constrains of the fish-like robots and based on the leader-following approach, a curvature coordinates is introduced to describe relative positions between different members within formations. Both the static and dynamic formations are concerned. We conduct simulations and physical experiments to verify effectiveness of the proposed algorithms.
A reconfigurable modular planetary robot system (RMPRS) consists of the parent body and multiple asymmetric wheel-manipulator child-robot modules. The module, which can independently locomote and manipulate, possesses the orientation of posture and the direction of locomotion. The modules have reconfiguration capability so that a group of the modules can construct a variety of configurations. The aim of the robot reconfiguration is to generate better configuration with respect to the directional locomotion adapted to the environment. Module State Vector (MSV) and Configuration State Matrix (CSM) are presented and constructed for representing the asymmetric module and the configurations, and supporting the transformation operation for triggering the elementary motions of the module and the reconfiguration. The algorithm for optimizing the assembly reconfiguration of discrete modules is proposed and the result is evaluated through numerical simulation in an example.
robots' eyes possible, which has rapidly promoted the development of robotic sciences. Barcode, which is simple but contains much information, has been used in navigation, manufacture and other situations by robots. Reading a barcode based on image analysis is an essential technique for such a robot system. Unfortunately, few existing image analysis methods about it are capable of identifying the codes under uncertain conditions, such as varying illumination, different sizes or orientations. This paper presents a method which can locate barcode region at an uncertain 3-D background through hierarchically extracting the distinct features of it with a high precision even for the broken, aberrant, partly blotted out stripes and other poor qualities of images. The method begins with a barcode quality assessment, in which a set of omnidirectional scan lines (active set lines) and a set of description of the whole image (resembling barcode measure), are defined. According to RBM, a series of corresponding methods are chosen to have a pre-processing process of the image and decode the codes respectively. The experiment results prove that our proposed method has two main characteristics. One is fast to locate barcode (get ROI of barcode). The other is to read barcode under unpredicted conditions robustly.
Gilbert algorithm is a very popular algorithm in collision detection in robotics and also in classification in pattern recognition. However, the major drawback of Gilbert algorithm is that in many cases it becomes very slow as it approaches the final solution and the vertices selection vibrates in these cases.
This paper presents the construction and motion control of a biologically inspired, multi-mode biomimetic robotic fish capable of three-dimensional locomotion. The mechanical configuration and the control system are described. The rhythmic movements of swimming are driven by the biological neural networks, called the central pattern generators (CPGs). The CPGs are modeled as nonlinear oscillators for joints and inter-joint coordination is achieved by altering the connection weights between joints. The CPG-based online gait generation method allows elegant and smooth transitions between swimming gaits, which result in multi-mode swimming to implement more lifelike locomotion. Several swimming modes can be obtained to mimic diverse actions of the real fish in nature, or designed according to special assignments by changing CPG parameters. The up-and-down motion can be implemented by adjusting the rotating angle of pectoral fins. The depth of the robotic fish is controlled utilizing a proportional-integral-derivative (PED) control algorithm according to the feedback of depth information measured by the sonar sensor installed at the bottom of the fish. The experimental results confirm the effectiveness of the control methods.
The paper analysts a kinematic model for a wheeled mobile robot (WMR) traversing uneven terrain. A new form of the kinematics for wheeled mobile robot is deduced, through analyzing Jacobian matrices of individual wheel and rearranging the variables. The performance and characters of the kinematic formulation are explained using physical conception. A new method is proposed to set up the kinematics formulation for wheeled mobile robots. After analyzing the actuation kinematics, simulation results are provided to validate the motion of wheeled mobile robot over a special terrain.
In this paper, we develop a novel robotic arm wrestling system integrated with mechanical arm, elbow/wrist force sensors, servo motor, encoder, 3-D MEMS accelerometer, and USB camera. The arm wrestling robot (AWR) is intended to play arm wrestling game with real human on a table for entertainment. The designing scenario of the prototype model's hardware is performed. Elbow/wrist force sensors, as a crucial device in the force sensing system, are described in details. Software is developed for device driven and interface. The surface electromyographic (EMG) signals from the upper limb are sampled when a real player competes with the force testing system. By using the method of wavelet packet transformation (WPT), the high-frequency noises can be eliminated effectively and the characteristics of EMG signals can be extracted. Artificial neural network is adopted to estimate the elbow joint torque. The effectiveness of the humanoid algorithm using torque control estimated via WRT and neural network is confirmed by experiments.
In order to improve existing work on investigating actions and intentions in cooperation logics, a new model is given to extend concurrent game structures. The assumption that different intelligent agents can not execute the same actions which obviously does not fit human commonsense understanding of the world has been done away with. Five functions that involved actions are given at length so that we can investigate the relations among agents, actions and states in depth within the context of social law. Two kinds of intentions (individual intention and group intention) have been investigated in the extended cooperation logic.
In this paper, a new congestion control model based on fuzzy neural networks (FNNs) is proposed for P2P network, which considers the practical status of data buffer and P2P traffic. The proposed model divides buffer into two queues which store P2P data packets and non-P2P data packets respectively. It predicts and evaluates conditions of buffer queues through FNN, and directs space allocation of each queue through constructing an evaluation function. Thus, this model is able to control congestion condition of each queue and resize allocation of queues in the buffer automatically, and then it can avoid lock-out of the buffer by dropping packets actively before the buffer is overflow. Simulation results show the model is good both ensuring equitable network resource allocation and decreasing the delay of packet queuing and the dropping ratio, thus improving the ability of routers in dealing with network congestion.
In this paper, a quantum reinforcement learning method is proposed for repeated game theory. First, the quantum reinforcement learning algorithm is introduced based on quantum state superposition principle and its superiority is analyzed. Then, it is applied to repeated games and the experiments show its effectiveness. Related issues are also discussed before the conclusion is given.
Controlling the multi-qubit system is a key task for practical quantum information processing. In this paper the control problem of five-qubit is studied. A novel quantum reinforcement learning algorithm based on quantum super-position principle is proposed for the quantum control problem. The simulated result shows that quantum reinforcement learning can effectively find the optimal control sequence through fast learning.
The advantages of being able to accurately measure redshift with photometric data are of great importance for studying cosmology, large scale structure of the Universe, determination of fundamental astrophysical quantities and so on, because photometric redshifts may provide approximate distances to the enormous set of objects. At present various algorithms for photometric redshifts have been investigated. This is induced us to develop a software platform that integrates different algorithms of estimating photometric redshifts, such as color-magnitude-redshift (CMR), Support Vector Machines (SVMs), HyperZ and Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs). The requirements of the software platform, architectural issues are addressed and its framework design implemented are discussed. It provides a user-friendly interface, by which users can choose the method they like, upload their own data, and then act their needed result by clicking a mouse. This framework is flexible and extensible enough to measure photometric redshifts.
While multi-agent systems seem to provide a good basis to build complex control system, the variety of agent-oriented(AO) methodologies may become a problem for developer when it comes to select the best-suited methodology for a given application domain. To resolve the difficulties in the construction of C41 system on naval ship, we demonstrate a development architecture to blend various AO methodologies, which will pave the way for an unified and general AO methodology. Based on the architecture, a solution is proposed by combing two classes representative AO methodologies: Gaia method (general agent oriented method) and MaSE method (object-oriented extended method), which can provide straightforward connections between AO analysis results and OO software implementation.
Internet auction is not only an integral part of Electronic Commerce but is also becoming a promising field for applying autonomous agents and multi-agent system (MAS) technologies. And auction, as an efficient resource allocation method, has an important role in MAS problems and as such is receiving increasing attention from scholars. This paper suggests a protocol (VAMA) and strategies for multi-attribute auction. Some useful properties such as strategy-proof are also proven. This paper also includes an analysis of the strategy of the buyer, and gives a decentralized mechanism for VAMA implementation as well as discussing some questions about VAMA. Finally, this protocol is compared with existing ones, improving on the work of Esther David etc.
In this paper, a motion planning method for autonomous control of a bipedal climbing robot based on hybrid navigation is presented. The algorithm of hybrid navigation blends the optimality of the trajectory planning with the capabilities in expressing knowledge and learning of the fuzzy neural network. The real task environment of the climbing robot is both known and dynamic. Therefore the trajectory planning is used to search roughly for the optimal trajectories which will lead towards the goal according to prior data. Meanwhile, by the process of the multi-sensor data fusion, the fuzzy neural network is employed in dealing efficiently with the uncertain and dynamic situations. The properties of motion planning based on the hybrid navigation are verified by the computer simulations and experiments.
Fuzzy neural networks display good capacity for self-adaptation and self-learning, and wavelet transformation or analysis reveals time frequency location characteristics and a multi-scale ability. Inspired by these advantages, a new intelligent diagnostic method for machine maintenance, wavelet fuzzy neural network (WFNN), is proposed in this paper. This new intelligent diagnostic method uses wavelet basis function as a membership function whose shape can be adjusted on line so that the networks have better learning and adaptive ability. An on-line learning algorithm is applied to automatically construct the wavelet fuzzy neural network. There are no rules initially in the wavelet fuzzy neural network, they are created and adapted as on-line learning proceeds via simultaneous structure and parameter learning. The advantages of this learning algorithm are that it converges quickly and the obtained fuzzy rules are more precise. The results of simulation show that this new intelligent diagnostic method has the advantages of a faster learning rate and higher diagnostic precision.
Dynamic Power Management (DPM) is a technique to reduce power consumption of electronic system by selectively shutting down idle components. In this article we try to introduce back propagation network and radial basis network into the research of the system-level power management policies. We proposed two PM policies-Back propagation Power Management (BPPM) and Radial Basis Function Power Management (RBFPM) which are based on Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). Our experiments show that the two power management policies greatly lowered the system-level power consumption and have higher performance than traditional Power Management(PM) techniques-BPPM is 1.09-competitive and RBFPM is 1.08-competitive vs. 1.79, 1.45, 1.18-competitive separately for traditional timeout PM, adaptive predictive PM and stochastic PM.
By introducing the information entropy H(X) and mutual information I(X; Y) of information theory into swarm intelligence, the Interaction Optimization Model (IOM) is proposed. In this model, the information interaction process of individuals is analyzed with H(X) and I(X; Y) aiming at solving optimization problems. We call this optimization approach as interaction optimization. In order to validate this model, we proposed a new algorithm for Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP), namely Route-Exchange Algorithm (REA), which is inspired by the information interaction of individuals in swarm intelligence. Some benchmarks are tested in the experiments. The results indicate that the algorithm can quickly converge to the optimal solution with quite low cost.
In this paper, a new algorithm for function approximation is proposed to obtain better generalization performance and faster convergent rate. The new algorithm incorporates the architectural constraints from a priori information of the function approximation problem into Extreme Learning Machine. On one hand, according to Taylor theorem, the activation functions of the hidden neurons in this algorithm are polynomial functions. On the other hand, Extreme Learning Machine is adopted which analytically determines the output weights of single-hidden layer FNN. In theory, the new algorithm tends to provide the best generalization at extremely fast learning speed. Finally. several experimental results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of our proposed learning algorithm.
For a group of stochastic systems whose output probability density function (PDF) is modelled by the B-spline neural networks with singular weights dynamics, the output PDF is controlled towards the desired PDF by an innovative optimization design with monotonically decreasing performance. The controller is developed based on the transformed equivalent non-singular system with sufficient conditions given for the monotonic performance.
In this paper, a novel model of elliptical basis function neural networks (EBFNN) is proposed. Firstly, a geometry analytic algorithm is applied to construct the hyper-ellipsoid units of hidden layer of the EBFNN. i.e., an initial structure of the EBFNN, which is further pruned by the particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm. Finally. the experimental results demonstrated the proposed hybrid optimization algorithm for the EBFNN model is feasible and efficient, and the EBFNN is not only parsimonious but also has better generalization performance than the RBFNN.
This paper proposes a novel algorithm based on minimizing mutual information for a special case of nonlinear blind Source separation: post-nonlinear blind source separation. A network composed of a set of radial basis function (RBF) networks, a set of multilayer perceptron and a linear network is used as a demixing system to separate sources in post-nonlinear mixtures. The experimental results show that our proposed method is effective. and they also show that the local character of the RBF network's units allows a significant speedup in the training of the system.
In this paper, a new method for bark classification based on textural and fractal dimension features using Artificial Neural Networks is presented. The approach involving the grey level co-occurrence matrices and fractal dimension is used for bark image analysis, which improves the accuracy of bark image classification by combining fractal dimension feature and structural texture features on bark image. Furthermore, we have investigated the relation between Artificial Neural Network (ANN) topologies and bark classification accuracy. Furthermore, the experimental results show the facts that this new approach can automaticly identify the plants categories and the classification accuracy of the new method is better than that of the method using the nearest neighbor classifier.
This paper presents a fast neural network method of radial basis function with dynamic decay adjustment (RBFN-DDA) to classify Quasi-Stellar Objects (QSOs) and galaxies automatically. The classification process is mainly comprised of three parts: (1) the dimensions of the normalized input spectra is reduced by the Principal Component Analysis (PCA); (2) the network is built from scratch: the number of required hidden units is determined during training and the individual radii of the Gaussians are adjusted dynamically until corresponding criterions are satisfied; (3) The trained network is used for the classification of the real spectra of QSOs and galaxies. The method of RBFN-DDA having constructive and fast training process solves the difficulty of selecting appropriate number of neurons before training in many methods of neural networks and achieves lower error rates of spectral classification. Besides, due to its efficiency, the proposed method would be particularly useful for the fast and automatic processing of voluminous spectra to be produced from the large-scale sky survey project.
This study describes a full model of calibrating an omnidirectional stereo vision system, which includes the rotation and translation between the camera and mirrors, and an algorithm implemented with a backpropagation technique of the neural network to determine this relative position from observations of known points in a single image. The system is composed of a perspective camera and two hyperbolic mirrors, which are configured to be separate and coaxial besides sharing one focus that coincides with the camera center for providing a single projection point. We divide the calibration into two steps. The first step we calibrate the camera's intrinsics without the mirrors in order to reduce computational complexity and in the second step we estimate the pose parameters of the CCD camera with respect to the mirrors based on a Levenberg-Marquart Backpropagation (LMBP) algorithm. The proposed technique can be easily applied to all kinds of catadioptric sensors and various amounts of misalignment between the mirrors and cameras.
The self-localization problem is very important when the mobile robot has to move in autonomous way. Among techniques for self-localization, landmark-based approach is preferred for its simplicity and much less memory demanding for descriptions of robot surroundings. Door-plates are selected as visual landmarks. In this paper, we present an adaptive segmentation approach based on Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and scale-space filtering. To speed up the entire color segmentation and use the color information as a whole, PCA is implemented to project tristimulus R, G and B color space to the first principal component (1st PC) axis direction and scale-space filtering is used to get the centers of color classes. This method has been tested in the color segmentation of door-plate images captured by mobile robot CASIA-1. Experimental results are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of this proposed method.
Hyper-redundant manipulator has more degrees of freedom than the least necessary to perform a given task, thus it has the features of overcoming conventional industrial robot's limitation to carry out a designated difficult task. When the manipulator carries out the missions such as brushing or writing on a surface, drilling or inspection in a hole, the end-effector of the manipulator usually has both position and orientation requirement. Effective control of the byper-redundant manipulator with such constrained end-effector is difficult for its redundancy. In this paper, a novel approach based on RBF neural network has been proposed to kinematically control the hyper-redundant manipulator. This technique, using variable regular polygon and RBF neural networks models, is completely capable of solving the control problem of a planar hyper-redundant manipulator with any number of links following any desired direction and path. With the shape transformation of variable regular polygon, the manipulator's configuration changes accordingly and moves actively to perform the tasks. Compared with other methods to our knowledge, this technique has such superiorities as fewer control parameters and higher precision. Simulations have demonstrated that this control technique is available and effective.
Nowadays, mobile robots have attracted more and more attention from researchers due to their extensive applications. Mobile robots need to have the capabilities of autonomy and intelligence, and they pose a challenge to researchers, which is to design algorithms that allow the robots to function autonomously in unstructured, dynamic, partially observable, and uncertain environments [1]. Navigation is the key to the relative technologies of mobile robots and neural networks are widely used in the field of mobile robot navigation due to their properties such as nonlinear mapping, ability to learn from examples, good generalization performance, massively parallel processing, and capability to approximate an arbitrary function given sufficient number of neurons. This paper surveys the developments in the last few years of the neural networks with applications to mobile robot navigation.
Electric Power Load Forecasting is important for the economic and secure operation of power system, and highly accurate forecasting result leads to substantial savings in operating cost and increased reliability of power supply. Conventional load forecasting techniques, including time series methods and stochastic methods, are widely used by electric power companies for forecasting load profiles. However, their accuracy is limited under some conditions. In this paper, neural networks have been successfully applied to load forecasting. Forecasting model with Neural Networks is set up based on the analysis of the characteristics of electric power load, and it works well even with rapidly changing weather conditions. This paper also proposes a novel method to improve the generalization ability of the Neural Networks, and this leads to further increasing accuracy of load forecasting.
A new network intrusion detection system is presented in this paper, The system is skillfully combined with fuzzy technique and neural network which architecture and arithmetic is redesigned. In order to overcome the difficulty of specifying the membership function of rules depending on experiences of experts in multi-dimensional space, fuzzy neural network model is introduced to carry through proper nonlinear division of input/output characteristics of complex system and to generate fuzzy rule sets and added membership relation automatically. The new system architecture adopts the network processor to collect and analyze the data in the low layer of network, and a prototype system is established. This prototype system behaves better ability of intrusion detection and lower rate of distort, and that it has the ability to detect unknown attack.
We propose a new criterion, called autocorrelation coefficient criterion (ACC) to select the appropriate lag structure of foreign exchange rates forecasting with neural networks, and design the corresponding algorithm. The criterion and algorithm are data-driven in that there is no prior assumption about the models for time series under study. We conduct the experiments to compare the prediction performance of the neural networks based on the different lag structures by using the different criterions. The experiment results show that ACC performs best in selecting the appropriate lag structure for foreign exchange rates forecasting with neural networks.
Lattice data have two different scale spatial properties: global dependence property and local fluctuation property. For lattice data space-time autoregressive modeling, to reduce influence of spatial fluctuation on prediction accuracy of neural networks, all regions are partitioned into several subareas by an improved k-means algorithm based on spatial contiguity relation. Some partition criteria are proposed to evaluate different partition schemes and the optimal scheme has the least spatial fluctuation and significant spatial dependent within each subarea. Each multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs) network is modeled respectively for each subarea, and the output nodes are the prediction values at time t of an attribute for all regions in a subarea, and the input nodes are observations before time t of this subarea itself and neighboring regions. As a case study, all local models are tested and compared with a single global MLPs network by one-step-ahead predicting of an epidemic dataset, and the results indicate that local NN model has better prediction performance than the global NN model.
Application of feedforward neural networks for integrated circuit (IC) modeling is presented. In order to accurately describe IC behaviors, a set of improved equations for dynamic feedforward neural networks has been utilized for IC modeling. The rationality of the improved equations is elucidated by analyzing the relation between the circuits and the equation parameters. Through some special choices of the neuron nonlinearity function, the feedforward neural networks can themselves be represented by equivalent circuits, which enables the direct use of neural models in existing analogue circuit simulators. Feedforward neural network models for some static and dynamic systems are obtained and compared. Simulated results are included to illustrate the accuracy of the neural networks in circuit modeling.
Despite a great deal of research, there still exists a number of challenges before making agent-based computing a widely accepted paradigm in software engineering practice. In order to realize an engineering change in agent oriented software engineering, it's necessary to turn agent oriented software abstractions into practical tools for facing the complexity of modem application areas. The paper presents a customizable development architecture for multi-agent systems, which can empower the developer to assemble a methodology tailored to the given project by putting appropriate meta models together, much like developers building applications from third party off-the-shelf components. To exemplify its feasibility and effectivity, the construction of C4I system is presented as a case study.
In a planetary rover system called "SMC rover", the motion coordination between robots is a key problem to be solved. Multiagent reinforcement learning methods for multirobot coordination strategy learning are investigated. A reinforcement learning based coordination mechanism is proposed for the exploration system. Four-robot climbing a slope is studied in detail as an instance. The actions of the robots are divided into two layers and realized respectively, which simplified the complexity of the climbing task. A Q-Learning based multirobot coordination strategy mechanism is proposed for the climbing mission. An OpenGL 3D simulation platform is used to verify the strategy and the learning results.
The paper proposes an agent-based constraint programming architecture that we have successfully applied to solve large, particularly combinatorial, operations problems. The architecture is based on the asynchronous team (A-Team) in which multiple problem solving agents cooperate with each other by exchanging results to produce a set of non-dominated solutions. We extend the A-Team by introducing CSP-specific agents, explicitly defining solution states, and enabling solution decomposition/composition, and thereby improve the performance, reliability, and automation of constraint programming significantly.
We introduce a new algorithm, BDDRPA*, which is an efficient BDD-based incremental heuristic search algorithm for replanning. BDDRPA* combines the incremental heuristic search with BDD-based search to efficiently solve replanning search problems in artificial intelligence. We do a lot of experiments and our experiment evaluation proves BDDRPA* to be a powerful incremental search algorithm. BDDRPA* outperforms breadth-first search by several orders of magnitude for huge size search problems. When the changes to the search problems are small, BDDRPA* needs less runtime by reusing previous information, and even when the changes reach to 20 percent of the size of the problems, BDDRPA* still works more efficiently.
Biomimetic robot fish can play an important role in underwater object reconnaissance and tracking. In order to fulfill more complex tasks, the capability of obstacle avoidance is an indispensable one for robot fish. The design of biomimetic robot fish with multiple ultrasonic and infrared sensors is presented in the paper. An obstacle avoidance strategy based on the reinforcement learning is proposed. State-behavior pairs are obtained. Computer simulation shows the validity of the learning results.
Metal-binding proteins play important roles in structural stability, signaling, regulation, transport, immune response, metabolism control, and metal homeostasis. Because of their functional and sequence diversity, it is desirable to explore additional methods for predicting metal-binding proteins irrespective of sequence similarity. This work explores support vector machines (SVM) as such a method. SVM prediction systems were developed by using 53,333 metal-binding and 147,347 non-metal-binding proteins, and evaluated by an independent set of 31,448 metal-binding and 79,051 non-metal-binding proteins. The computed prediction accuracy is 86.3%, 81.6%, 83.5%, 94.0%, 81.2%, 85.4%, 77.6%, 90.4%, 90.9%, 74.9% and 78.1% for calcium-binding, cobalt-binding, copper-binding, iron-binding, magnesium-binding, manganese-binding, nickel-binding, potassium-binding, sodium-binding, zinc-binding, and all metal-binding proteins respectively. The accuracy for the non-member proteins of each class is 88.2%, 99.9%, 98.1%, 91.4%, 87.9%, 94.5%, 99.2%, 99.9%, 99.9%, 98.0%, and 88.0% respectively. Comparable accuracies were obtained by using a different SVM kernel function. Our method predicts 67% of the 87 metal-binding proteins non-homologous to any protein in the Swissprot database and 85.3% of the 333 proteins of known metal-binding domains as metal-binding. These suggest the usefulness of SVM for facilitating the prediction of metal-binding proteins. Our software can be accessed at the SVMProt server http://jing.cz3.nus.edu.sg/cgi-bin/svmprot.cgi.
In this paper we described the architecture and key issues of the service enabling layer of a multi-modal system Ozone which is oriented for new technologies and services for emerging nomadic societies. The main objective of the Ozone system is to offer a generic framework to enable consumer-oriented Ambient-Intelligence applications. As a large multi-modal system, Ozone consists of many functional modules. However, spoken language played an important role to facilitate the usage of the system. Hence, we presented the design principle of the architecture of the system, the service enabling layer, and spoken language processing techniques in multi-modal interaction, etc.
Inspired by the information interaction of individuals in swarm intelligence, a new algorithm for combinatorial optimization is proposed, which is called as Route-Exchange Algorithm (REA). This is a heuristic approach, in which the individuals of the swarm search the state space independently and simultaneously. When one encounters another in the process, they would interact with each other, exchange the information of routes toured, and utilize the more valuable experiences to improve their own search efficiency. An elite strategy is designed to avoid vibrations. The algorithm has been applied to Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) and assignment problem in this paper. Some benchmark functions are tested in the experiments. The results indicate the algorithm can quickly converge to the optimal solution with quite low cost.
While the Resilient Backpropagation (RPROP) method can be extremely fast in converging to a solution, it suffers from the local minima problem. In this paper, a fast and reliable learning algorithm for multi-layer artificial neural networks is proposed. The learning model has two phases: the RPROP phase and the gradient ascent phase. The repetition of two phases can help the network get out of local minima. The proposed algorithm is tested on some benchmark problems. For all the above problems, the systems are shown to be capable of escaping from the local minima and converge faster than the Backpropagation with momentum algorithm and the simulated annealing techniques.
Speaker independent large vocabulary continuous speech recognition technique has always been the research focus in the domain of artificial intelligence and pattern recognition. A Mongolian large vocabulary continuous speech recognition system is introduced in this paper. Mongolian is belonged to Altai phylum, and similar with the Western language. According to the characteristics of Mongolian pronunciation, we build the Mongolian acoustic model. We collected a large size corpus to construct the language model. HTK (HMM Toolkit) has been used to construct the system. The experimental results indicated that the design of models related to the Mongolian speech recognition is rational and correct.
This paper mainly focuses on the modeling of oil well pressure data compensation system(OWPCS) based on Neural Networks(NN). Firstly, the operational principle and configuration of OWPCS is described. Then the currently widely used modeling method for OWPCS is given, and its limitations and disadvantages are also illustrated. Secondly, in order to solve the OWPCS modeling problem more reasonably, a new approach based on Neural Network is proposed. Thirdly, the feasibility of using NN to solve this problem is analyzed, and a three-layer BP network is constructed to testify the new modeling method. Fourthly, considering the defect of BP learning algorithm and the special application environment of OWPCS, some improvements are given. Finally, experiment results are presented to show the reasonableness and effectiveness of the new method.
To solve the complicated non-linear mode-sorting problem of protein secondary structure prediction, the chapter proposed a new method based on radial basis function neural networks and learning from evolution. It also discussed the influence of data selection and structure design on the performance of the networks. The results indicate that this method is feasible and effective.
We propose a new computational method of input selection for stock market forecasting with neural networks. The method results from synthetically considering the special feature of input variables of neural networks and the special feature of stock market time series. We conduct the experiments to compare the prediction performance of the neural networks based on the different input variables by using the different input selection methods for forecasting S&P 500 and NIKKEI 225. The experiment results show that our method performs best in selecting the appropriate input variables of neural networks.
We compare the predication performance of neural networks with the different frequencies of input data, namely daily data, weekly data, monthly data. In the I day and I week ahead prediction of foreign exchange rates forecasting, the neural networks with the weekly input data performs better than the random walk models. In the I month ahead prediction of foreign exchange rates forecasting, only the special neural networks with weekly input data perform better than the random walk models. Because the weekly data contain the appropriate fluctuation information of foreign exchange rates, it can balance the noise of daily data and losing information of monthly data.
Cytochrome P450 enzymes are responsible for phase I metabolism of the majority of drugs and xenobiotics. Identification of the substrates and inhibitors of these enzymes is important for the analysis of drug metabolism, prediction of drug-drug interactions and drug toxicity, and the design of drugs that modulate cytochrome P450 mediated metabolism. The substrates and inhibitors of these enzymes are structurally diverse. It is thus desirable to explore methods capable of predicting compounds of diverse structures without over-fitting. Support vector machine is an attractive method with these qualities, which has been employed for predicting the substrates and inhibitors of several cytochrome P450 isoenzymes as well as compounds of various other pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic, and toxicological properties. This article introduces the methodology, evaluates the performance, and discusses the underlying difficulties and future prospects of the application of support vector machines to in silico prediction of cytochrome P450 substrates and inhibitors.
A set of improved equations for dynamic feedforward neural networks is introduced to represent the behavior of the integrated circuit (IC). The rationality of the improved equations is elucidated by studying the relationship between the circuits and the equation parameters. In order to apply the dynamic feedforward neural networks to the design of intelligent IC, the method of modeling and simulation with VHSIC hardware description language is presented, as an important step for hardware implementation. The simulated results indicate that the new dynamic feedforward neural networks can better approximate to the behavior of a dynamic electrical system.
An increasing number of medical imagery is created directly in digital form. Such as Clinical image Archiving and Communication Systems (PACS). as well as telemedicine networks require the storage and transmission of this huge amount of medical image data. Efficient compression of these data is crucial. Several lossless and lossy techniques for the compression of the data have been proposed. Lossless techniques allow exact reconstruction of the original imagery. while lossy techniques aim to achieve high compression ratios by allowing sonic acceptable degradation in the image. Lossless compression does not degrade the image, thus facilitating accurate diagnosis, of course at the expense of higher bit rates, i.e. lower compression ratios.
This paper investigates the tracking problem of nonholonomic mobile robots. A control structure combining a kinematic controller and a dynamic controller based on nonlinear feedback control plus fuzzy compensator is presented. The fuzzy compensator, whose parameters are tuned on-line, is employed to approximate the total uncertainty including the structured and unstructured uncertainties due to the universal approximation property of fuzzy logic systems. The stability of the proposed approach is guaranteed by the Lyapunov theory. Simulation results show the efficiency of the proposed approach.
This paper proposed a fault monitoring policy for hierarchical network with multi-manager. It can be used to monitor the network in real time and lightened the burden of the network monitoring management. With the application of the multi-agent Markov Decision Processes in the network management, an appropriate policy model of SNMP polling with the reinforcement learning is given. The simulations results show that the reinforcement-learning model can provide effective fault localization meanwhile decrease the overhead of network management remarkably.
Some popular computing technologies, such as ubiquitous computing, grid computing and thin-client computing, bring people to a much more distributed and pervasive. computing environment. Based on these innovative technologies, a distributed virtual personal computing (DVPC) paradigm is coming into being. One of the fundamental challenges in the DVPC design is the virtually integrated but physically distributed desktop system. We proposed Redar, a remote desktop architecture for the DVPC. Redar integrates various user interfaces from diverse service nodes into one virtual desktop, and present the virtual desktop to the ultra-thin user client. The user interfaces currently supported by Redar include the application GUIs as well as the, mobile storage interfaces. The key components in Redar are the GUI merger, the virtual desktop manager, the ultra-thin-client and the transport protocols. We have implemented Redar in a DVPC prototype system. According to our evaluation, Redar shows perfect display latency, storage I/O, overhead, scalability and robustness.
Wireless sensor network (WSN), which is integrated with many technologies such as sensor, embedded computing, wireless communication and distributed information processing etc., is becoming an important branch of ubiquitous computing research. WSN is composed of a large number of distributed sensor nodes, so to ensure the sensor nodes dependable is essential to security of whole network. By introducing a lightweight tamper-resistance design based on security co-processor into sensor nodes, this paper loosens up the security assumptions of WSN, and redefines the objectives of WSN security. Based on such secure inftastructure, the paper also proposes a concise and effective key pre-distribution scheme, in which each node needs to send only one cluster key announcement message and cluster key net can be set up within neighborhood.
Because of lacking modem information management and long-term planning, many serious problems, including environment, ecology, production and so forth, are found in Chinese large-scale, mid-scale and small-scale mining areas. GIS (Geographic Information System) can efficiently show its vital energies in problem solving, and which mainly depends on its powerful spatial analysis, decision-making and mass data storage and management ability. In this paper, we take large-scale mining area as an example to study GIS decision-making support, synthesis management platform applied mining area. According to characteristics of the large-scale mining area, we put forward a plan for GIS platform of information management and long-term planning of mining area: the platform is divided into decision support subsystem and the community synthesis management subsystem. The former includes following items: (1) Site selection, which is mainly for site selection of industrial production, commercial run and residential area; (2) Monitoring of reclaimed land and ecology, which is mainly for destructed field surface and subsurface of the mining area because of coal mining; (3) The synthesis management system of green mining, mainly for safety, efficiency and environment protection. The later, community synthesis management subsystem mainly includes: the community synthesis information subsystem and the public urgent predetermined planning subsystem. At last, some problems and shortages are analyzed in the system construction of the large-scale mining area.
Synthetic Aperture Radar remote sensing has been effectively used in water compliance and enforcement, especially in ship detection, but it is still very difficult to classify or identify vessels in inland water only using existing SAR image. Nevertheless some experience knowledge can help, for example waterway channel is of great significance for water traffic management and illegal activity monitoring. It can be used for judging a vessel complying with traffic rules or not, and also can be used to indicate illicit fishing vessels which are usually far away from navigable waterway channel. For illicit vessel identification speed and efficiency are very important, so it will be significant if we can extract waterway channel directly from SAR images and use it to identify illicit vessels. The paper first introduces the modified two-parameter CFAR algorithm used to detect ship targets in inland waters, and then uses principal curves and neural networks to extract waterway channel. Through comparing the detection results and the extracted waterway channel those vessels not complying with water traffic rules or potential illicit fishing vessels can be easily identified. Keywords: synthetic aperture radar, detection, identification, inland waters, waterway channel, CFAR, principal curves, artificial neural networks
A cable-suspended parallel robot utilizes the basic idea of Stewart platform but replaces parallel links with cables and linear actuators with winches. It has many advantages over a conventional crane. The concept of applying a cable-suspended parallel robot into the construction and maintenance of giant telescope is presented in this paper. Compared with the mass and travel of the moving platform of the robot, the mass and deformation of the cables can be disregarded. Based on the premises, the kinematic and dynamic models of the robot are built. Through simulation, the inertia and gravity of moving platform are found to have dominant effect on the dynamic characteristic of the robot, while the dynamics of actuators can be disregarded, so a simplified dynamic model applicable to real-time control is obtained. Moreover, according to control-law partitioning approach and optimization theory, a workspace model-based controller is proposed considering the characteristic that the cables can only pull but not push. The simulation results indicate that the controller possesses good accuracy in pose and speed tracking, and keeps the cables in reliable tension by maintaining the minimum strain above a certain given value, thus ensures smooth motion and accurate localization for moving platform.
Human machine interaction, such as virtual reality and 3D interaction, is one of the key technique challenges on the way to achieve ubiquitous computing. In order to realize harmonious human machine interaction, this paper makes some useful efforts on formalizing rational and emotional agents for human machine interface basing on multi-agent technology. An improved model of concurrent game structure is given, mental states (belief desire and. intention) of agent are brought into new multi-agent cooperation logics, multi-subset semantics of individual intention are given and extended to give the semantics to group intentions. Understanding and representing of emotions are added to agent for human machine interface to improve the effective interaction between human and machine, formal representation of emotion are given. Four tough problems (logical omniscience problem, the side-effect problem of tautological implication, disjunction magnification problem and conjunction separation problem) are done away with. Several desired properties are attained finally.
The growing number of computer network attacks or intrusions has caused huge lost to companies, organizations, and governments during the last decade. Intrusion detection, which aims at identifying and predicting network attacks, is a fast developing area that has attracted attention from both industry and academia. Technologies have been developed to detect network intrusions using theories and methods from statistics, machine learning, soft computing, mathematics, and many other fields. We have previously proposed multiple criteria linear programming (MCLP) and multiple criteria nonlinear programming (MCNP) models for two-group intrusion detection. Although these models achieve good results in two-group classification problems, they perform poorly on multi-group situations. In order to solve the problem, we introduce the kernel concept into multiple criteria models in this paper. Experimental results show that the new model provides both high classification accuracies and low false alarm rates in three-group and four-group intrusion detection.
In this study, we discuss a least squares version of fuzzy support vector machine (FSVM) classifiers for designing a credit risk assessment system to discriminate good creditors from bad ones. Relative to the classical FSVM, the least squares FSVM (LS-FSVM) can transform a quadratic programming problem into a linear programming problem thus reducing the computational complexity. For illustration, a real-world credit dataset is used to test the effectiveness of the LS-FSVM.
It is difficult to choose eigenvectors when neural network recognizes object. It is possible that the different object eigenvectors is similar or the same object eigenvectors is different under scaling, shifting, rotation if eigenvectors can not be chosen appropriately. In order to solve this problem, the image is edged, the membership function is reconstructed and a new threshold segmentation method based on fuzzy theory is proposed to get the binary image. Moment invariant of binary image is extracted and normalized. Some time moment invariant is too small to calculate effectively so logarithm of moment invariant is taken as input eigenvectors of BP network. The experimental results demonstrate that the proposed approach could recognize the object effectively, correctly and quickly.
In this paper, the authors put forward a new method for print number recognition when we research on the OCR (Optical Character Recognition). It's different from the traditional method such as NN (Neural Networks) recognition or model matching. By this method, the number waiting for recognizing was treated as the fingerprint lines, then, defined and extracted the features about the number for recognition. At end of the paper, an experiment result is given.
The Minimum Resolvable Temperature Difference (MRTD) is the most widely accepted figure for describing the performance of a thermal imaging system. Many models have been proposed to predict it. The MRTD testing is a psychophysical task, for which biases are unavoidable. It requires laboratory conditions Such as normal air condition and a constant temperature. It also needs expensive measuring equipments and takes a considerable period of time. Especially when measuring imagers of the same type, the test is time consuming. So an automated and intelligent measurement method should be discussed.
The Internet-based teleoperation has been studied in more and more potential fields in the past years. The interest in multi-robot systems arises during recent years for their ability to perform better in complex environment. However, it is difficult for robots to perform tasks autonomously in complex conditions, thus a human operator at the remote site is needed to contribute his intelligence to the robot system. The Internet has brought out a new way for a human to operate multiple intelligent robots and an Internet-based multi-robot teleoperation system is developed in this paper. A behavior-based programming control concept is introduced to avoid the problems caused by the Internet latency in teleoperation and a pattern of combining the human intelligence with the artificial intelligence is proposed. The design of the system is also described in detail.
In order to decrease the orientation error induced by motion control of a differential-drive mobile robot, a fuzzy logic cross-coupling motion controller that integrates the cross-coupling control and fuzzy logic techniques together is presented. Cross-coupling control can directly minimize the orientation error by coordinating the motion of the two drive wheels. Experimental results show that the proposed fuzzy logic cross-coupling controller can be successfully applied to enhancing the motion accuracy of the robot. It's also demonstrated that the performance of the fuzzy logic cross-coupling control scheme is superior to the conventional PID cross-coupling control scheme.
A reconfigurable modular planetary robot system (RMPRS) consists of a parent body and multiple asymmetric wheel-manipulator child-robots. As an agent, the child-robot independently performs locomotion and manipulation. The child-robots have reconfigurable capability so that a group of child-robots are combined to a variety of conflgurations. Moreover, the child-robot gives output in different forms under various constraint conditions from one driving force. Utilizing this characteristic, it can cross an obstacle automatically. But the guiding wheel and the arm have fatal influence on the height of the obstacle that the child-robot can cross. A motion planning method for highly improving the capability of crossing an obstacle for the child-robot is proposed, which makes use of the environment and the posture of arm. The validity of the planning method is demonstrated by the experiments of the physical prototype.
A systematic methodology for circuit design is proposed for experimental verification of multidirectional multiscroll chaotic attractors, including one-directional (1-D) n-scroll, 2-D n x m-grid scroll, and 3-D n x m x l-grid scroll chaotic attractors. Two typical cases are investigated in detail: the hysteresis and saturated multiscroll chaotic attractors. A simple blocking circuit diagram is designed for experimentally verifying 1-D 5 similar to 11-scroll, 2-D 3 x 5 similar to 11-grid scroll, and 3-D 3 x 3 x 5 similar to 11-grid scroll hysteresis chaotic attractors by manipulating the switchers. Moreover, a block circuitry is also designed for physically realizing 1-D 10, 12, 14-scroll, 2-D 10, 12, 14 x 10-grid scroll, and 3-D 10 x 10 x 10-grid scroll saturated chaotic attractors via switching. In addition, one can easily realize chaotic attractors with a desired odd number of scrolls by slightly modifying the corresponding voltage saturated function series of the circuit, to produce for instance a 1-D 13-scroll saturated chaotic attractor. This is the first time in the literature to report an experimental verification of a 1-D 14-scroll, a 2-D 14 x 10-grid scroll and a 3-D 10 x 10 x 10-grid (totally 1000) scroll chaotic attractors. Only the 3-D case is reported in detail for simplicity of presentation. It is well known that hardware implementation of 1-D n-scroll with n >= 10, 2-D n x m-grid scroll with n, m >= 10, and 3-D n x m x l-grid scroll with n, m, l >= 10 chaotic attractors is very difficult technically, signifying the novelty and significance of the achievements reported in this paper. Finally, this circuit design approach provides some principles and guidelines for hardware implementation of chaotic attractors with a multidirectional orientation and with a large number of scrolls, useful for future circuitry design and engineering applications.
Formal method provides a way to achieve an exact and consistent definition of security for a given scenario. This paper presents a formal state-based verifiable RBAC model described with Z language, in which the state-transition functions are specified formally. Based on the separation of duty policy, the constraint rules and security theorems are constructed. Using a case study, we show how to specify and verify the consistency of formal RBAC system with theorem proving. By specifying RBAC model formally, it provides a precise description for the system security requirements. The internal consistency of this model can be validated by verification of the model.
The relaxation labeling is a useful technique to deal with local ambiguity and achieve consistency. In [1], some useful comments indicate several common properties exist in the relaxation process and the neural network technique. Neural networks can be used as an efficient tool to optimize the average local consistency function whose optimal solution results in a compatible label assignment. However, most of current investigations in this field are based on the standard Hopfield neural network (SHNN) presented in [2]. In this paper, an improved Hopfield neural network (IHNN) presented in [3] is utilized to fulfill relaxation labeling. Compared to the SHNN, this approach has some advantages. 1) The IHNN uses fewer neurons than that of SHNN. 2) The activation function of IHNN is easier to be implemented than that of SHNN. 3) The IHNN does not contain any penalty parameters. It can generate the exact optimal solution. Some experimental results illustrate that the IHNN approach can obtain a better labeling performance than that of SHNN.
A novel cooperative evolutionary system, i.e., CGPNN, for automatic design artificial neural networks (ANN's) is presented where ANN's structure and parameters are tuned simultaneously. The algorithms used in CGPNN combine genetic algorithm (GA) and particle swarm optimization (PSO) on the basis of a direct encoding scheme. In CGPNN, standard (real-coded) PSO is employed to training ANN's free parameters (weights and bias) and binary-coded GA is used to find optimal ANN's structure. In the simulation part, CGPNN is applied to the predication of tool life. The experimental results show that CGPNN has good accuracy and generalization ability in comparison with other algorithms.
To overcome the deficiency of Support Vector Machine (SVM) for regression, dynamic epsilon-SVM method was proposed. To establish precise mathematical models, a new modeling method was introduced, combining self-organizing feature map (SOFM) with the dynamic epsilon-SVM. Firstly, SOFM was used as a clustering algorithm to partition the whole input space into several disjointed regions; then, the dynamic epsilon-SVM modeled for these partitioned regions. This method was illustrated by modeling penicillin fermentation process with plant field data. Results show that the method achieves significant improvement in generalization performance compared with other methods based on SVM.
The feature selection is an important part in automatic classification. In this paper, we use the HowNet to extract the concept attributes, and propose CHI-MCOR method to build a feature set. This method not only selects the highly occurring words, but also selects the word whose occurrence frequency is middle or low occurring words that are important for text classification. The combined method is much better than any one of the weight methods. Then we use the Self-Organizing Map (SOM) to realize automatic text clustering. The experiment result shows that if we can extract the sememes properly, we can not only reduce the feature dimension but also improve the classification precise. SOM can be used in text clustering in large scales and the clustering results are good when the concept feature is selected.
In the field of credit risk analysis, the problem that we often encountered is to increase the model accuracy as possible using the limited data. In this study, we discuss the use of supervised neural networks as a metalearning technique to design a credit scoring system to solve this problem. First of all, a bagging sampling technique is used to generate different training sets to overcome data shortage problem. Based on the different training sets, the different neural network models with different initial conditions or training algorithms is then trained to formulate different credit scoring models, i.e., base models. Finally, a neural-network-based metamodel can be produced by learning from all base models so as to improve the reliability, i.e., predict defaults accurately. For illustration, a credit card application approval experiment is performed.
The exponential stability is discussed for Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with discrete delays. Without assuming the boundedness, differentiability and monotonicity of the activation functions, the nonlinear measure approach is employed to analyze the existence and uniqueness of an equilibrium, and a novel Lyapunov functional is constructed to investigate the exponential stability of the networks. New general sufficient conditions, which are independent of the delays, are derived for the global exponential stability of the delayed neural networks.
This paper proposed a new method of extracting texture features based on contourlet domain in RGB color space. In addition, the application of these features for bark classification applying radial basis probabilistic network (RBPNN) has been introduced. In this method, the bark texture feature is firstly extracted by decomposing an image into 6 subbands using the 7-9 biorthogonal Debauches wavelet transform, where each subband is fed to the directional filter banks stage with 32 directions at the finest level, then the mean and standard deviation of the image output are computed. The obtained feature vectors are fed up into RBPNN for classification. Experimental results show that, features extracted using the proposed approach can be more efficient for bark texture classification than gray bark image.
Classification rule mining is an important function of data mining, and is applied in many data analysis tasks. The classification rule mining algorithm based-on ant colony optimization (ACO) is researched in this paper. Some improvements are implemented based on existing research to enhance classification predictive accuracy and simplicity of rules. Multi-population parallel strategy is proposed, the cost-based discretization method is adopted, and parameters in the algorithm are adjusted step by step. With these improvements, performance of the algorithm is advanced, and classification predictive accuracy is enhanced. Finally, SIMiner, a self-development data mining software system based on swarm intelligence, is applied to experiment on six data sets taken from UCI Repository on Machine Learning. The results illuminate the algorithm proposed in this paper has better performance in predictive accuracy and simplicity of rules.
The past five years have witnessed an explosion of interest in the use of cooperation logics for reasoning about multi-agent systems. Since the development of ATL, there are many multi-agent cooperation logics developed as an extension to ATL. The cooperation logic called the Normative Alternating-time Temporal Epistemic Logic (NATEL) is developed to extend ATL. Four key contributions have been made. Firstly, the strong and unrealistic assumption of the other two extended cooperation logics of ATL (ATEL, NATL*) that different agents are not allowed to control the same actions have been done away with. Secondly, functions that involved actions are given in more detail, so that the relations between actions and knowledge, actions and agents, actions and states can be researched in depth and separately. Thirdly, actions, knowledge and normative ability can be represented in the object language other than only in the underlying semantics. Lastly, since actions, knowledge and normative ability are taken into account at the same time, the expressive power and flexibility of NATEL are much richer than the other two extended cooperation logics of ATL.
This paper presents the structure and configuration of a control system and a videos transmission system of a tribratiation mobile robot for inspection of power transmission lines. The robot can negotiate obstacles autonomously on the simulated line in the lab. The efficiency and consistency of video transmission is very important remote monitoring and control systems. To enhance the efficiency and consistency, this paper discusses the design process of the remote video transmission and the remote control scheme for inspection robots. It also analyzes the factors that affect consistency of the videos and finds out a method to achieve this function. The efficiency of the video transmission design and the feasibility of the remote control scheme are illustrated by the experiments and simulation results.
Using CCD, ultrasonic and infrared sensors, the authors propose a new hierarchical architecture for multisensor fusion, along with its algorithms for mobile robots. According to the architecture, firstly, an approach to locating targets is proposed when only ultrasonic sensors are available. Secondly, Gabor filter technology is employed to recognize unknown targets using the images provided by the CCD alone. Moreover, on the basis of the polynomial approximation, a method for calculating the coordinates of the ground special points, which are taken as the position descriptions of the recognized target, is presented. Thirdly, when CCD and ultrasonic sensors are available simultaneously, elements at the intersection of the information from CCD and ultrasonic sensors are fused to form reliable position coordinates of the recognized target. Last, the algorithm is tested on our designed and developed mobile robot, CASIA-I.
Usually on-off magnetism team motor speed-adjusting adopts traditional linear control algorithm (such as PID). In modern control system, it is nonlinear, multivariable, multi-coupling, high-dimension and the object is time-varying, uncertain and difficult to describe by math model because of the complex control object. The traditional algorithm is difficult to meet the need of on-off magnetism team motor speed-adjusting. The paper takes the fuzzy control technique into on-off magnetism team motor speed-adjusting system, designs a complex fuzzy control motor speed-adjusting system. The system composed to be a real-time data collection and control system by computer, AID, D/A and sensor. It adopts on-off magnetism team motor (rating power 11kw, rating rotate speed 1500rpm), analog load (0 similar to 10 kw) to take a platform-frame experiment and make the system precision and dynamic performance achieve the need. Actually it is turn out to be feasible to use motor speed-adjusting, at the same time, have a good effect. After we take it, the control precision has been improved and had a good effect on improving the system quality.
The trustless deflection occurred by the acquisition system is the main reason to bring the illusive alarms (above 80%). Although the acquisition system of the bridge structural health monitoring system (BSHMS) is designed by the advanced sensors, for example, the photoelectric imaging deflection meter system and so on. However, the trustless deflection generated by much reason in data acquisition system and transmission system, and these trustless data are unavoidable. A novel method based on the correlation analysis of bridge's checking points and the RBF neural networks is proposed for correcting nonlinear deflection trustless data. Compared with conventional methods (its MSE is 4.3815), the proposed approach (its MSE is 0.7973) assures more accurate and accords with practice. Simulation results verify the effectiveness of the designed method and theoretical. discussions.
Dynamic Power Management (DPM) is a technique to reduce power consumption of electronic system by selectively shutting down idle components. In this article we try to introduce back propagation network and radial basis network into the research of the system-level power management policies. We proposed two PM policies-Back propagation Power Management (BPPM) and Radial Basis Function Power Management (RBFPM) which are based on Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). Our experiments show that the two power management policies greatly lowered the system-level power consumption and have higher performance than traditional Power Management(PM) techniques-BPPM is 1.09-competitive and RBFPM is 1.08-competitive vs. 1.79 . 1.45 . 1.18-competitive separately for traditional timeout PM . adaptive predictive PM and stochastic PM.
With the increasing demand of fuel and emission Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEV) with dual power sources, the engine and the motor, has been one of the development ways of clean automobiles. In the research on Hybrid Electric Vehicles, the control of the powertrain is the key issue. According to Parallel Hybrid Electric Vehicles, this paper used fuzzy control to realize Electric Assist Control Strategy and Membership Function was optimized for increasing fuel economy and decreasing emissions.
A method based on hybrid control theory for modeling and control of teleoperated manipulator system is presented in this paper. In telerobotic systems, human operator plays the role of a command generator which produces commands in real time according to information fed back. However, telerobotic system is a heterogeneous system and the heterogeneity can be characterized by the fact that humans are intelligent while robots are fast, powerful and accurate. Human operator is different from autonomous planner in robotic systems in that he can not generate continuous control inputs to the remote robot. As a result, telerobotic system is a typical hybrid system which contains both continuous-time and discrete event dynamics. Specifically, the robot can be considered as a continuous-time system described customarily by differential equations or difference equations, and the human operator can be modeled by an automaton. A hybrid framework is of key importance for the study of such a system. The problems to be discussed in this paper include developing a framework in which both the robotic system and the human operator can be modeled simultaneously, and introducing how to implement this framework in a real, teleoperated manipulator system.
Real time adaptability is of central importance for the control of Unmanned Helicopter flying under different circumstances. In this paper, an active model is employed to handle the time varying uncertainties involved in the helicopter dynamics during flight. In the scheme, a normal LQR control designed from a simplified model at hovering is enhanced by means of Unscented-Kalman-Filter (UKF) based estimation, which tries to online capture the error between the simplified model and the full dynamics. This is intended to achieve adaptive performance without the need of adjusting the controller modes or parameters along with the changing dynamics of helicopter. Simulations with respect to a model helicopter are conducted to verify both the UKF-based estimation and the enhanced LQR control. Results are also demonstrated with the normal LQR control with the active model enhancement.
Although the third-generation formulation of the ocean wave model describes the wave generation, dissipation and nonlinear interaction processes explicitly, many empirical parameters exist in the model which have to be determined experimentally. With the advance in oceanographic remote-sensing techniques, information on oceanic parameters including significant wave height (SWH) can be obtained daily by satellite altimeters The assimilation of these data into the wave model provides a way of improving the hindcasting results. However, for wave forecasting, no altimeter data exist during the forecasting period by definition To improve the forecasting accuracy of the wave model, Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) are introduced to mimic the errors introduced by the wave model This is achieved by training the ANN using the wave model output as input, and the results after data assimilation as the targeted output. The trained ANN is then used as a post-processor of the output from the wave model. The proposed method has been applied in wave simulation in the northwestern Pacific Ocean. The statistical interpolation method is used to assimilate the altimeter data into the wave model output and a back-propagation ANN is used to mimic the relation between the wave model outputs with or without data assimilation. The results show that an apparent improvement in the accuracy of forecasting can be obtained.
In 2008 the Olympics Games will be held in Beijing. For this purpose the city government of Beijing has launched the Special Programme for Construction of Digital Olympics. One of the objectives of the program is the use of artificial intelligence technology to overcome language barriers during the games. In order to demonstrate the contribution that speech-to-speech translation technology (SST) can make to solving this problem and in order to prove the feasibility of deploying such technology in the environment of the Olympic Games 2008 in Beijing, we have developed the Digital Olympics Speech-to-Speech Translation System that addresses a general touristic domain with a special focus on pre-arrival hotel reservation. The system allows for rapid development of SST prototypes, the study of different user-interfaces and the on-the-fly comparison of alternative approaches to the individual problems involved in this task.
How to exploit current information techniques for rapidly and accurately building a fittest neural network becomes increasingly significant for flood peak forecasting. This paper firstly designs a distributed computing architecture and builds a computing environment based on Grid technologies. Then a distributed computing service for neural networks based on a genetic algorithm and a modified BP algorithm is designed and developed to rapidly and accurately building a fittest neural network for flood peak forecasting. Finally, a distributed computing prototype system is developed and implemented on a case study of the flood prevention in Shenzhen city, China. The experiment result shows that the scheme addressed in the paper is efficient and feasible.
In this study, a reliability-based RBF neural network ensemble forecasting model is proposed to overcome the shortcomings of the existing neural ensemble methods and ameliorate forecasting performance. In this model, the ensemble weights are determined by the reliability measure of RBF network output. For testing purposes, we compare the new ensemble model's performance with some existing network ensemble approaches in terms of three exchange rates series. Experimental results reveal that the prediction using the proposed approach is consistently better than those obtained using the other methods presented in this study in terms of the same measurements.
In this paper, a kinematic controller based on input-output linearization plus neural network (NN) controller is presented for tracking control of a mobile robot with kinematic uncertainty. The NN controller, whose parameters are tuned on-line, can deal with the uncertainty imposed on the kinematics model of mobile robots. The stability of the proposed approach is guaranteed by the Lyapunov theory. Simulation results show the efficiency of the proposed approach.
The LAMOST(12) telescope is expected to have its first light in later of 2007. The 4-meter aperture and 4000-fiber feeding ablility will make it a powerful spectra sky survey instrument, as well a challenge to the mission of data processing and analysis. So far several statistical methods, mainly based on PCA, have been developed for spectra automatic classification and red shift measurement by a team of LAMOST.(3) Statistical methods of Hidden Markov Modelling have become popular in many area since 1990s, which are rich in mathematical structure and can form the theoretical basis for use in a wide range of applications, e.g. speech recognition and pattern recognition. No doubt they are prospective implements for automatic spectra processing and analysis. In this paper, I attempt to briefly introduce the theoretical aspects of this type of statistical modelling and show the possible applications in automatic spectra data processing and analysis.
In the urban/territorial planning process, the quality of the evaluation procedure is crucial. It is necessary to select and implement innovative tools able to handle the huge amount of available data concerning territorial systems in order to extract useful information from them to enhance the quality of evaluation procedure for urban/territorial planning. This paper selects some tools derived from Artificial Intelligence, and incorporated GIS through the elaboration of various types of available data, to extract and build knowledge directly from experimental data and also to represent the extracted knowledge very effectively and communicatively, in the form of sets of spatial transformation rules. It describes the structure of the data mining tools which are most suitable for applications in the field of urban planning, aimed at discovering the transformation rules driving the evolution of cities in special of metropolitan in analysis.
Customer relationship management (CRM) is one of the biggest concerns in a telecom company. Application of data mining can support telecom CRM effectively, and a systematical architecture of data mining has been needed to support every aspects of telecom CRM roundly. To solve this problem, the systematical application architecture of data mining in telecom CRM is established and components of five modules in the architecture are specified in this paper. Data mining algorithms based-on swarm intelligence improved by our own have been adopted in these modules. SIMiner, a self-development data mining software system based on swarm intelligence, is applied in this architecture. Finally, an application example is given to illuminate that telecom companies can make marketing strategies roundly and effectively with the support of the application architecture.
Artificial Intelligence attempts simulation, extension and expansion of human intelligence using artificial methodology and technology. Artificial intelligence has enjoyed tremendous success over the last fifty years. In this paper we only focus on introduction to the progress of agent computing, machine learning, Semantic Web and agent grid intelligence platform. For the long-term goal of Artificial Intelligence, intelligence science will play an important role.
The logical analysis of cooperation ability of agents has entered the mainstream of multi-agent systems research. In this paper, the cooperation logic called Normative Alternating-time Temporal Logic with Actions is developed to extend the Alternating-time Temporal Logic. Three main contributions have been made. Firstly, the assumption is not valid any more that different agents can not control the same actions which obviously does not fit human commonsense understanding of the world. Secondly, several functions are brought in to make it possible to deal with the relation between agents and actions and the relation between actions and states separately. Finally, actions and normative ability are represented in the object language at the same time, so that the flexibility and expressive power of cooperation logics have been greatly improved. It can be used in reasoning about multi-agent systems, as well as in formalizing social contract. A case study is also given at last.
In this paper, an information pattern recognition method based on fuzzy control is set up. On one hand, the modeling method of fuzzy information classified recognition pattern has been established. On the other hand, the data from Qufu City of Shandong Province during 14 years from 1990 to 2003 is processed and analyzed. The average temperature (degrees C) and rainfall (mm) in April each year are considered as the input of the system, a number of Aphis gossypii Glover (AGG) occurred for the Cotton in high period are considered as the output, Fuzzy information classified recognition pattern is set up in order to recognize the occurrence degree of the AGG The results of the returning recognition from 1990 to 2003 and the recognition for 2004 are satisfactory.
The problem of path planning of mobile robots typically consists of two subproblems: path generation and path tracking. In this paper, the path of mobile robot is generated by a sequence of straight lines, and then the kinematic controller is designed by using coordinate transformation in order to drive the robot to move in the desired path. Stability of the proposed controller is guaranteed by the Lyapunov theory. Simulation results show the efficiency of the proposed method.
In this paper, the vision-based navigation problem for mobile robots in indoor environments is discussed. Corridor guidelines between the walls and the floor are used to guide the robot to move in the middle of the hallway. A neural network method is proposed to calibrate the camera, and then the corridor guidelines are transformed from image coordinates to robot coordinates. The corridor guidelines are extracted using the least square estimator. The backstepping method is employed to design the controller that guarantees the robot to move in the desired path. Experimental and simulation results show the efficiency of the proposed method.
Two networks were extracted from two large semantic networks, HowNet and synsets of WordNet, based on conceptual relations. Analysis of these networks shows that they are complex networks with features of small-world and scale-free. Results also show that semantic networks are similar to brain networks: (a) exponents of power law degree distributions are between 1.0 and 2.0, while exponents of brain function networks are around 2.0; (h) semantic networks have hierarchical structures while brain networks exhibit features of segregation and integration; (c) semantic networks are disassortative, in this not similar to brain function networks but similar to neural networks. Similarities between semantic networks and brain networks suggest that they may obey similar dynamic rules.
During the course of decision-making in case-based planning, users' experience and knowledge is very significant. This paper discusses how to incorporate them into PLANAUTHOR, a case-based planning system developed by us, before making a decision. Using templates, the authors give a new method, integrating case-based reasoning with decision tree algorithm, to make a multistep decision in case-based planning. The templates in this system were first used to obtain a plan frame in terms of notified situations. The integration helped the users decide whether a step should be carried out at the strategic level and how the step is performed at the tactical level, in turn. The results show that the integration can improve efficiency and quality of planning with templates. Most of all, past cases can make the users more confident about the solutions proposed by the system.
The paper regards the biochemical reaction of the treatment process of waste gas by trickling bio-filter as a controllable industrial entironment. It takes all kinds of process parameters., such as the flux of the purified waste gas, the flux of the cycle liquid. value of PH, temperature and so on. as extendable units, applies extendable fusion method of neural networks to research the state detection of biochemical reaction process of the microorganism in the industrial entironment. By simulation and experimental study, authors find that it is suitable to adopt Artificial Neural Networks to establish model for the purified treatment process, modify genetic algorithm (MGA) to improve its convergent velocity., then adopt a hybrid algorithm (MGA-LMBP). which is composed of a modified GA (MGA) and a Levenberg-Marquardt BP algorithm (LMBP). In this way,. establish extendable fusion model that neural networks simulates trickling bio-filter to treat biological waste gas, and utilize the existed experimental data samples to train neural networks model. The result shows that the effects are satisfactory.
In this paper, the tertiary structures of protein chains of heterocomplexes were mapped to 2D networks; based on the mapping approach, statistical properties of these networks were systematically studied. Firstly, our experimental results confirmed that the networks derived from protein structures possess small-world properties. Secondly, an interesting relationship between network average degree and the network size was discovered, which was quantified as an empirical function enabling us to estimate the number of residue contacts of the protein chains accurately. Thirdly, by analyzing the average clustering coefficient for nodes having the same degree in the network, it was found that the architectures of the networks and protein structures analyzed are hierarchically organized. Finally, network motifs were detected in the networks which are believed to determine the family or superfamily the networks belong to. The study of protein structures with the new perspective might shed some light on understanding the underlying laws of evolution, function and structures of proteins, and therefore would be complementary to other currently existing methods.
In this paper(1) we present a novel framework for protein secondary structure prediction. In this prediction framework, firstly we propose a novel parameterized semi-probability profile, which combines single sequence with evolutionary information effectively. Secondly, different semi-probability profiles are respectively applied as network input to predict protein secondary structure. Then a comparison among these different predictions is discussed in this article. Finally, naive Bayes approaches are used to combine these predictions in order to obtain a better prediction performance than individual prediction. The experimental results show that our proposed framework can indeed improve the prediction accuracy.
Rough set theory was proposed by Pawlak to deal with the vagueness and granularity in information systems that are characterized by insufficient, inconsistent, and incomplete data. Its successful applications draw attentions from researchers in areas such as artificial intelligence, computational intelligence, data mining and machine learning. The classical rough set model is based on an equivalence relation on a set, but it is extended to generalized model based on binary relations and coverings. This paper reviews and summarizes the axiomatic systems for classical rough sets, generalized rough sets based on binary relations, and generalized rough sets based on coverings.
While multi-agent systems seem to provide a good basis to build complex system, the variety of agent-oriented (AO) methodologies may become a problem for developer when it comes to select the best-suited methodology for a given application domain. To solve the problem, a development architecture is proposed to blend various AO methodologies, which can empower developer to assemble a methodology tailored to the given project by putting appropriate models together. To verify its validity, we derive a new approach from the architecture in the research project for the construction of C4I system on naval warship.
Within multi-agent systems, it is almost impossible for multiple Web agents to completely share a same vocabulary. This makes multi-agent communication difficult. In this paper, we proposed an approach for better multi-agent communication using approximation technology of semantic terminology across multiple ontolgies. This method uses description logic language for describing ontological information and perform approximate query across multiple ontologies.
One of the most important works in the investigation of logic programming is to define the semantics of the logic programs and to find the preferable answer set of them. There are so far three methods can be used to establish the semantics of the logic programs, i.e., the means of model, fixpoint and proof theory. According to the form of the rules contained in a logic program, different logic program classes can be defined. Although well-defined semantics exist for some restricted classes of programs like Horn and stratified Programs, the declarative semantics of the more general program classes are still the subject of research. In this paper, the properties of the basic disjunctive logic programming are studied, and the notion of double prioritization is introduced, that is, the prioritization on both literals and clauses, by which the most preferable answer set of a basic disjunctive logic program is defined. In order to obtain the most preferable answer set of a basic disjunctive logic program explicitly, a recursion-theoretic construction called tree method is given.
Wireless sensor networks have recently gained a lot of attention. Target tracking is a canonical application of wireless sensor networks and task allocation is an unavoidable problem for target tracking. To improve the tracking quality and save more energy, an auction-based dynamic coalition scheme of task allocation for single target tracking in wireless sensor networks was introduced. Further more, the scheme was extended to multiple dynamic coalition scheme to achieve even better performance. The simulations compared the standard deviation of tracking error, detecting ratio and energy consumption of the new schemes with those of case-based reasoning dynamic coalition scheme. The auction-based dynamic coalition scheme saves more energy and improves the tracking quality evidently. The extended scheme achieves better tracking quality and the energy consumed is still far less than that consumed in the case-based reasoning dynamic coalition scheme.
This paper addresses the modularized structure of the control system and kinematic analysis to motion control for a new planetary rover, Reconfigurable Planetary Robot System (RPRS). In the RPRS, a child-robot with a 6-DOF arm and a wheel can independently locomote and manipulate. Furthermore, the child-robots have self-reconfiguration capability so that multiple child-robots can construct and reconfigurable to diverse configurations. Based on distributed controller and CAN, the structure and functions of the control system are decomposed to different modules with independent controllers. The control flow with distributed computation is introduced. The kinematics and inverse kinematic solutions are both educed. The results of this research are also demonstrated through the simulation and experiments of the prototypes.
A linguistic control method based on motion description languages for posture stabilization of wheeled mobile robot is presented in this paper. In robotic systems control actions should be selected and executed by the triggering events. As a result, robotic systems typically posses a hierarchical structure, characterized by continuous variable dynamics at the lowest level and logical decision - making at the highest. Motion description languages, inspired by formal languages and automaton theory, serve as an abstraction between continuous and discrete control. Unlike traditional methods, the linguistic control method can be used to describe completely for interactions between robot and the environments in which it operates, and the complexity for steering a robot can also be measured quantitatively. The posture stabilization problem for wheeled mobile robots is studied and simulation results verify the validity of this method.
Inspired by the behavior of people, a new algorithm for the combinatorial optimization is proposed. This is a heuristic approach based on swarm intelligence, which is firstly introduced as the theoretical background in this paper. It is also a parallel algorithm, in which individuals of the swarm search the state space independently and simultaneously. When one encounters another in the process, they would communicate with each other, and utilize the more valuable experiences to improve their own fitness. A positive feedback mechanism is designed to avoid vibrations. Ten benchmarks of the TSPLIB are tested in the experiments. The results indicate that the algorithm can quickly converge to the optimal solution with quite low cost. Some conclusions about the algorithm are summarized finally.
While multi-agent systems seem to provide a good basis to build complex control system, the variety of agent-oriented(AO) methodologies may become a problem for developer when it comes to select the best-suited methodology for a given application domain. To resolve the difficulties, a development architecture is proposed to blend various AO methodologies, which will pave the way for a unified and general AO methodology. We demonstrate the usage of the suggested architecture by combing two classes representative AO methodologies: KE-extended (knowledge engineering) method and OO-extended (object-oriented) method. By means of the combination, the method can provide straightforward connections between KE analysis results and OO software implementation. Finally, a case study is illustrated to show how to apply this method.
A suspension system for studying the dynamic characteristics of space robots working under microgravity condition is introduced. The system can apply a constant force against the gravity of an operating target. The support point on system's end-effector synchronously tracking the motion of suspens on object is expected to obtain long-time zero-gravity o the target satellite. According to dynamic model of suspension module, a "bang-bang" time-optimal programming which is a human simulated conception, and a precision tracking approach through coarse and precise periods is proposed. The control result is presented and verified by using numerical computation and simulation.
A self-tuning PID controller based on adaptive genetic algorithm (AGA) and neural networks is presented. AGA optimizes not only the initial weights of the BP neural networks(BPNN) which optimizes parameters of PID, but also the optimum values of the following radial basis function neural networks(RBFNN) parameters: centers, variance and weights of the output layer. RBFNN identifies the Jacobian information of the controlled plant. The influence on the control performance is solved which results from the initial parameters of BPNN and RBFNN. The result of the simulation shows that the method can improve the robust performance of the control system.
In order to implement the rapid reconfiguration of reconfigurable assembly system, after analyzing the traditional architectures of control systems, a hybrid architecture based on multi-agent systems is proposed, which combines the advantages of hierarchical and distributed architecture. The proposed architecture has many prominent characters such as lower complexity, robustness, maintainability, scalability, reusing ability and so on. Conforming to FIPA standards, all kinds of agents in the architecture are realized on the software development platform JADE.
With the rapid proliferation of spatial information on the web, the development of spatial web services represents a challenging issue. The research presented in this paper introduces a novel approach for the integration of spatial semantics within a case-based reasoning solution for the delivery of spatial information services on the Web. The framework integrates Web services in the decision making process and is adaptable to service requester constraints. The framework is based on OWL semantic descriptions for implementing both the components of the CBR engine and the matchmaking profile of the Web services. The framework and approach are illustrated with web-based travel planning, e.g. flight schedule arrangement according to user's requests, constraints, and preferences.
In this paper, a new buy-time fault tolerant method is proposed based on a bounding parameter estimation algorithm. The system parameters are confined within given bounds. The size of the bounds shrinks as more information becomes available. In this case, the reconfigurable control scheme can rely on the estimated parameter bounds to provide preliminary control to stabilize the system and slow down the deterioration of the system performance. Thus longer time can he gained for further identification and control reconfiguration to recover the system performance gradually. The simulation result shows that with this method, the safety critical system can buy some time before the final crash happens.
Pharmaceutical agents have been developed and tested for possessing desirable pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic, and minimal level of toxicological properties. Computational methods have been explored for predicting these properties aimed at the discovery of promising leads and the elimination of unsuitable ones in early stages of drug development. Statistical learning methods have shown their potential for predicting these properties for structurally diverse sets of agents by using both conventional (quantitative structure-activity and structure-property relationships) and more recently explored (such as neural networks and support vector machines) statistical models. These methods have been used for predicting agents of a variety of pharmacodynamic (such as inhibitors or agonists of a therapeutic target), pharmacokinetic (such as P-glycoprotein substrates, human intestine absorption, and blood-brain barrier penetrating capabilities), and toxicological (such as genotoxicity) properties. The strategies, current progresses, and the underlying difficulties and future prospects of the application of the recently explored statistical learning methods are discussed.
One critical "drawback" of the backpropagation algorithm is the local minima problem. We have noted that the local minima problem in the backpropagation algorithm is usually caused by update disharmony between weights connected to the hidden layer and the output layer. To solve this kind of local minima problem, we propose a modified error function with two terms. By adding one term to the conventional error function., the modified error function can harmonize the update of weights connected to the hidden layer and those connected to the output layer. Thus, it can avoid the local minima problem caused by such disharmony. Simulations on some benchmark problems and a real classification task have been performed to test the validity of the modified error function.
BP algorithm of neural net is used more in remote sensing data classification. One of drawbacks of BP algorithm is the overall low function when the net is training. To avoid this kind of problem, the paper introduces the tolerant rough set for classification-preprocessing the training data to reduce the influence elements of the training convergence in order to improve the net training successful rate. ETM+ data of Beijing in May 2003 is selected in the study. ETM+ data before and after classification preprocessing, respectively, are used for BP (Back propaclation) training. The result shows that such a preprocessing not only compensates the drawback of BP algorithm when processing ETM+ data but also improves classification accuracy.
Traditional error back propagation is a widely used training algorithm for feed forward neural networks (FFNNs). However, it generally encounters two problems of slow learning rate and relative low accuracy. In this work, a hybrid genetic algorithm combined with modified Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm (HGALM) was proposed for training FFNNs to improve the accuracy and decrease the time depletion comparing to the traditional EBP algorithm. The FFNNs based on HGALM were used to predict the binodal curve of water-DMAc-PSf system and protein solubility in lysozyme-NaCl-H2O system. The results would be used for guiding experimental researches in preparation of asymmetry polymer membrane and optimization of protein crystal process. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This note provides some corrections and generalizations to the aforementioned paper.
Operationally AVHRR and TM/TM+ data were used and a supervised maximum likelihood classification (MLH) was applied to depict land use changes in Beijing, providing basic maps for planning and development. With rapid growth of the city these are helpful to deal with higher resolution data, whereas new classification algorithms produce land use maps more accurate. In the paper, new sensor ASTER data and the Kohonen self-organized neural network feature map (KSOM) were tested.
An important concept proposed in the early stage of robot path planning field is the shrinking of a robot to a point and meanwhile the expanding of obstacles in the workspace as a set of new obstacles. The resulting grown obstacles are called the Configuration Space (Cspace) obstacles. The find-path problem is then transformed into that of finding a collision-free path for a point robot among the Cspace obstacles. However, the research experiences have shown that the Cspace transformation is very hard when the following situations occur: 1) both the robot and obstacles are not polygons, and 2) the robot is allowed to rotate. This situation gets even worse when the robot and obstacles are three dimensional (3D) objects with various shapes. For this reason, direct path planning approaches without the Cspace transformation is quite useful and expected. Motivated by the practical requirements of robot path planning, a generalized constrained optimization problem (GCOP) with not only logic AND but also logic OR relationships was proposed and a mathematical solution developed previously. This paper inherits the fundamental ideas of inequality and optimization techniques from the previous work, converts the obstacle avoidance problem into a semi-infinite constrained optimization problem with the help of the mathematical transformation, and proposes a direct path planning approach without Cspace calculation, which is quite different from traditional methods. To show its merits, simulation results in 3D space have been presented.
The newly developed topological indices A(m1)-A(m3) and the molecular connectivity indices X-m were applied to multivariate analysis in structure-property correlation studies. The topological indices calculated from the chemical structures of some hydrocarbons were used to represent the molecular structures. The prediction of the retention indices of the hydrocarbons on three different kinds of stationary phase in gas chromatography can be achieved applying artificial neural networks and multiple linear regression models. The results from the artificial neural networks approach were compared with those of multiple linear regression models. It is shown that the predictive ability of artificial neural networks is superior to that of multiple linear regression method under the experimental conditions in this paper. Both the topological indices X-2 and A(m1) can improve the predicted results of the retention indices of the hydrocarbons on the stationary phase studied. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Support vector machine (SVM) is a very specific type of learning algorithms characterized by the capacity control of the decision function, the use of the kernel functions and the sparsity of the solution. In this paper, we investigate the predictability of financial movement direction with SVM by forecasting the weekly movement direction of NIKKEI 225 index. To evaluate the forecasting ability of SVM, we compare its performance with those of Linear Discriminant Analysis, Quadratic Discriminant Analysis and Elman Backpropagation Neural Networks. The experiment results show that SVM outperforms the other classification methods. Further, we propose a combining model by integrating SVM with the other classification methods. The combining model performs best among all the forecasting methods. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this study, we propose a novel nonlinear ensemble forecasting model integrating generalized linear autoregression (GLAR) with artificial neural networks (ANN) in order to obtain accurate prediction results and ameliorate forecasting performances. We compare the new model's performance with the two individual forecasting models-GLAR and ANN-as well as with the hybrid model and the linear combination models. Empirical results obtained reveal that the prediction using the nonlinear ensemble model is generally better than those obtained using the other models presented in this study in terms of the same evaluation measurements. Our findings reveal that the nonlinear ensemble model proposed here can be used as an alternative forecasting tool for exchange rates to achieve greater forecasting accuracy and improve prediction quality further. (c) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The use of spatial methods to detect and characterize changes in land use has been attracting increasing attention from researchers. The objectives of this article were to formulate the dynamics of land use on the temporal and spatial dimensions from the perspectives of the Change-Pattern-Value (CPV) and driving mechanism, based on multitemporal remote sensing data and socioeconomic data, The Artificial Neural Networks were used to identify the factors driving changes in land use. The Pearl River Delta Region of southeast China, which was experiencing rapid economic growth and widespread land conversion, has been selected as the study region. The results show that from 1985 to 2000 in the study region (1) the most prominent characteristics of change in land use were the expansion of the urban land at the expense of farmland, forests, and grasslands, (2) the land-use pattern was being optimized during this period, (3) in an analysis of value, built-up land can yield a return of more than 30 times that of farmland, water area, and forests lands, and (4) rapid economic development, growth in population, and the development of an infrastructure were major driving factors behind ecological land loss and the nonecological land expansion.
This paper proposes a modified radial basis function classification algorithm for non-linear cancer classification. In the algorithm, a modified simulated annealing method is developed and combined with the linear least square and gradient paradigms to optimize the structure of the radial basis function (RBF) classifier. The proposed algorithm can be adopted to perform non-linear cancer classification based on gene expression profiles and applied to two microarray data sets involving various human tumor classes: (1) Normal versus colon tumor; (2) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) versus acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Finally, accuracy and stability for the proposed algorithm are further demonstrated by comparing with the other cancer classification algorithms.
In this Letter, several classes of impulsive Cohen-Grossberg neural networks with time delay are studied. Globally exponential stability and globally exponentially robust stability are investigated by Lyapumov function and Halanay inequality. Furthermore, sufficient conditions are given to guarantee the existence of omega-periodic solution and all other solutions are convergent to it globally exponentially. At last, two examples are given to show the effectiveness of results in this Letter. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a supercritical fluid extraction setup with an extraction volume of one liter was established with which Hippophae rhamnoides L seed oil was extracted using supercritical CO(2.) The experiments show that many factors have an impact on the oil yield, such as extraction pressure, temperature, and fluid flow rate, as well as seed particle size and filling quantity. For the extraction process of H. rhamnoides L seed oil, the recommended conditions were as follows: extraction pressure of 20-30 MPa, extraction temperature of 35-40 degrees C, supercritical CO(2) flow rate of 0.15-0.3 m(3)/h, and extraction time of 4-5 h. Under such conditions, the oil obtained is very lucid and of good quality, and the yield can be greater than 90%. Gas chromatography analysis shows that the oil contains 12.3% saturated fatty acid and 87.7% unsaturated fatty acid. From the changes of oil yield with the extraction time, it can be concluded that the extraction process contains three stages: the fast extraction (line), transitional, and slow extraction stages. At the first stage, 75-80% of the oil has been extracted. On the basis of the experimental results, artificial neural network technology was applied to the simulation of the supercritical fluid extraction of vegetable oil. With a three-layer back-propagation network structure, the operation factors, such as pressure, temperature, and extraction time, were used as input variables for the network, and the oil yield was used as the output value. In the optimization of the topological structure of the net, six neurals from the middle hidden layer have been proven to be the optimum value, according to the minimum training and running time. With the normalization pretreatment of the initial input data, not only the convergence speed and accuracy has been improved greatly but also the problem of the derivative at zero has been solved. Therefore, the method is better than that of Fullana. On the basis of simplification of the extraction process, taking account of axial dispersion, a differential mass balance kinetic model has been proposed. With Matlab software as platform, an artificial neural networks-supercritical fluid extraction simulation system has been programmed. For the first time, the simulation for the supercritical fluid extraction process of H. rhamnoides L seed oil has been made, and the results show that the average absolute relative deviation is lower than 6%.
A new method applying an artificial neural network (ANN) to retrieve water vapor profiles in the troposphere is presented. In this paper, a fully-connected, three-layer network based on the backpropagation algorithm is constructed. Month, latitude, altitude and bending angle are chosen as the input vectors and water vapor pressure as the output vector. There are 130 groups of occultation measurements from June to November 2002 in the dataset. Seventy pairs of bending angles and water vapor pressure profiles are used to train the ANN, and the sixty remaining pairs of profiles are applied to the validation of the retrieval. By comparing the retrieved profiles with the corresponding ones from the Information System and Data Center of the Challenging Mini-Satetlite Payload for Geoscientific Research and Application (CHAMP-ISDC), it can be concluded that the ANN is relatively convenient and accurate. Its results can be provided as the first guess for the iterative methods or the non-linear optimal estimation inverse method.
Computed Torque Control (CTC) is an effective motion control strategy for robotic manipulator systems, which can ensure globally asymptotic stability. However, CTC scheme requires precise dynamical models of robotic manipulators. To handle this impossibility, in this paper, a new approach combing CTC and Fuzzy Control (FC) is developed for trajectory tracking problems of robotic manipulators with structured uncertainty and/or unstructured uncertainty. Fuzzy part with a set of tunable parameters is employed to approximate lumped uncertainty due to parameters variations, unmodeled dynamics and so on in robotic manipulators. Based on Lyapunov stability theorem, it is shown that the proposed controller can guarantee stability of closed-loop systems and satisfactory tracking performances. The proposed approach indicates that CTC method is also valid for controlling uncertain robotic manipulators as long as compensative controller is appropriately designed. Finally, computer simulation results on a two-link elbow planar robotic manipulator are presented to show tracking capability and effectiveness of the proposed scheme. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V All rights reserved.
We present a search for electroweak production of single top quarks in the s-channel and t-channel using neural networks for signal-background separation. We have analyzed 230 pb(-1) of data collected with the DO detector at the Fermilab Tevatron Collider at a center-of-mass energy of 1.96 TeV and find no evidence for a single top quark signal. The resulting 95% confidence level upper limits on the single top quark production cross sections are 6.4 pb in the s-channel and 5.0 ph in the t-channel. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A general class of discrete-time recurrent neural networks (DTRNNs) is formulated and studied in this paper. Several sufficient conditions are obtained to ensure the global stability of DTRNNs with delays based on induction principle (not based on the well-known Liapunov methods). The obtained results have neither assumed the symmetry of the connection matrix, nor boundedness, monotonicity or the differentiability of the activation functions. In addition, discrete-time analogues of a general class of continuous-time recurrent neural networks (CTRNNs) are derived and studied. The convergence characteristics of CTRNNs are preserved by the discrete-time analogues without any restriction imposed on the uniform discretization step size. Finally, the simulating results demonstrate the validity and feasibility of our proposed approach.
The effects of one or five daily intraperitoneal injections of a neurotensin (NT) receptor agonist NT69L (2 mg/kg, i.p.) on the expression of NT (NTS), dopamine I and 2 receptors, tyrosine hydroxylase, and DOPA decarboxylase using immunohistochemical and real-time PCR were investigated in rats. Except for the striatum, acute injection of NT69L did not affect neurotensin receptors as compared to saline control. However, 5 daily injections of NT69L resulted in down-regulation of both NTS-I protein and mRNA levels in several brain regions with the striatum showing a dramatic decrease in NTS-1 expression (P < 0.05). The down-regulation of NTS-1 in the striaturn, hypothalamus, and substania nigra (SN) after 5 daily injections was confirmed by autoradiography. Acute injection of NT69L. increased NTS-2 mRNA and protein level in prefrontal cortex (PFC). NTS-3 mRNA expression and protein levels were slightly down-regulated in hypothalamus. periaqueductal gray (PAG), and SN, though the difference was not significant. The results indicated a difference in the profile of NT receptors expression in response to NT69L.. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and DOPA deearboxylase (DE)Q mRNA was significantly down-regulated in striatum but not in SN. Interestingly, Nurrl, a transcriptional activator of TH, was dramatically up-regulated in striatum. but down-regulated in PFC, suggesting that different modulating mechanisms may participate in NT69L tolerance in different regions, The present results suggest that distinct NT receptors involved in the effects exerted by NT69L may contribute to the interactions of NT69L with both neural networks and cellular proteins. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we focus on protein inter-residue contacts map prediction, one of the most important intermediate steps to the protein folding problem, based on radial basis function neural network (RBFNN), and propose a novel binary encoding scheme for the purpose of learning the inter-residue contact patterns. The experimental evidence on globulin protein indicates the utility of our proposed encoding strategy. Moreover, the simulation results demonstrate that the network get a better performance for these proteins, whose residue length falls into the area of (100, 300), and our proposed encoding strategy has promising future in the research on contacts map prediction problem. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Different modalities of sensation interact in a synergistic or antagonistic manner during sensory perception, but whether there is also interaction during memory acquisition is largely unknown. In Drosophila reinforcement learning we found that conditioning with concurrent visual and olfactory cues reduced the threshold for unimodal memory retrieval. Furthermore, bimodal preconditioning followed by unimodal conditioning with either a visual or olfactory cue led to crossmodal memory transfer. Crossmodal memory acquisition in Drosophila may contribute significantly to learning in a natural environment.
In this Letter, we have shown that the n-dimensional cellular neural network and delay cellular neural network can have not more than 3(n) memory patterns, can have 2(n) memory patterns which are locally exponentially stable. And we have obtained the estimates of attractive domain of such 2(n) locally exponentially stable memory patterns. In addition, we have derived the conditions that the equilibrium point is locally exponentially stable when the equilibrium point locate the designated position. Some sufficient conditions have been obtained to guarantee the global exponential stability for the cellular neural networks. Those conditions can be directly derived from the parameters of the neural networks, are very easy to verified. The results presented in this Letter are the improvement and extension of the existed ones. Finally, the validity and performance of the results are illustrated by two simulation results. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Back propagation neural networks are used to retrieve atmospheric temperature profiles from NOAA-16 Advanced Microwave Sounding Unit-A (AMSU-A) measurements over East Asia. The collocated radiosonde observation and AMSU-A data over land in 2002-2003 are used to train the network, and the data over land in 2004 are used to test the network. A comparison with the multi-linear regression method shows that the neural network retrieval method can significantly improve the results in all weather conditions. When an offset of 0.5 K or a noise level of +/- 0.2 K is added to all channels simultaneously, the increase in the overall root mean square (RMS) error is less than 0.1 K. Furthermore, an experiment is conducted to investigate the effects of the window channels on the retrieval. The results indicate that the brightness temperatures of window channels can provide significantly useful information on the temperature retrieval near the surface. Additionally, the RMS errors of the profiles retrieved with the trained neural network are compared with the errors from the International Advanced TOVS (ATOVS) Processing Package (IAPP). It is shown that the network-based algorithm can provide much better results in the experiment region and comparable results in other regions. It is also noted that the network can yield remarkably better results than IAPP at the low levels and at about the 250-hPa level in summer skies over ocean. Finally, the network-based retrieval algorithm developed herein is applied in retrieving the temperature anomalies of Typhoon Rananim from AMSU-A data.
In many robotic tasks, there is no a priori knowledge of the environment. This makes it necessary for robots to explore the environment. Navigation algorithms for robots to map the environment completely in a short time play a very important role in the robotic task completion. A navigation algorithm based on virtual centrifugal force is proposed to complete the robotic exploration of the unknown environment using rang sensors in this paper. Collisions between a robot and an obstacle or between robots can be avoided with the application of the proposed navigation rules. The kinematics and dynamics equations of robots adopting the algorithm are also given. The simulation experiments demonstrate the operation of the algorithm. Several simulation experiments of various representative robotic tasks are carried out, based on the explorative navigation algorithm, which successfully validate the virtual centrifugal force based navigation algorithm. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper makes the detailed analyses of computational complexities and related parameters selection on our proposed constrained learning neural network root-finders including the original feedforward neural network root-finder (FNN-RF) and the recursive partitioning feedforward neural network root-finder (RP-FNN-RF). Specifically, we investigate the case study of the CLA used in neural root-finders (NRF), including the effects of different parameters with the CLA on the NRF. Finally, several computer simulation results demonstrate the performance of our proposed approach and support our claims. (c) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
An adaptive sliding mode fuzzy control approach is proposed for a two-dimensional overhead crane. System linearization transforms the two-dimensional system to two independent systems: X-direction transport system and Y-direction transport system. Both the two systems are with the same dynamic model and include two subsystems: positioning subsystem and anti-swing subsystem. Combining SMC's robustness and FLC's independence of system model, a sliding mode fuzzy control approach is proposed for both X-direction transport and Y-direction transport. According to the influences on system dynamic performance, both the slope of sliding mode surface and the coordination between the two subsystems are automatically tuned by real time fuzzy inference respectively. The effectiveness of the proposed control approach is demonstrated by experiments with a two-dimensional prototype overhead crane. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
The problem of motif identification in protein sequences has been studied for many years in the literature. Current popular algorithms of motif identification in protein sequences face two difficulties, high computational cost and the possibility of insertions and deletions. In this paper, we provide a new strategy that solve the problem more efficiently. We develop a self-organizing neural network structure with multiple levels of subnetworks to make an intelligent classification of the subsequences obtained from protein sequences. We maintain a low computational complexity through the use of this multi-level structure so that the classification of each subsequence is performed with respect to a small subspace of the whole input space. The new definition of pairwise distance between motif patterns provided in this paper can deal with up to two insertions/deletions allowed in a motif, while other existing algorithm can only deal with one insertion or deletion. We also maintain a high reliability using our self-organizing neural network since it will grow as needed to make sure all input patterns are considered and are given the same amount of attention. Simulation results show that our algorithm significantly outperforms existing algorithms in both accuracy and reliability aspects. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Galaxies can be divided into two classes: normal galaxy (NG) and active galaxy (AG). In order to determine NG redshifts, an automatic effective method is proposed in this paper, which consists of the following three main steps: (1) From the template of normal galaxy, the two sets of samples are simulated, one with the redshift of 0. 0-0. 3, the other of 0. 3-0. 5, then the PCA is used to extract the main components, and train samples are projected to the main component subspace to obtain characteristic spectra. (2) The characteristic spectra are used to train a Probabilistic Neural Network to obtain a Bayes classifier. (3) An unknown real NG spectrum is first inputted to this Bayes classifier to determine the possible range of redshift, then the template matching is invoked to locate the redshift value within the estimated range. Compared with the traditional template matching technique with an unconstrained range, our proposed method not only halves the computational load, but also increases the estimation accuracy. As a result, the proposed method is particularly useful for automatic spectrum processing produced from a large-scale sky survey project.
Based on the Lyapunov-Krasovskii functionals in combination with linear matrix inequality (LMI) approach, a set of criteria are proposed for the exponential stability of BAM neural networks with constant or time-varying delays. These criteria manifest explicitly the influence of time delay on exponential convergence rate and show the differences between the excitatory and inhibitory effect. In addition, the obtained results are easily verified for determining the exponential stability of delayed BAM networks and impose less conservative and less restrictive than the ones in previous papers. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper proposes new modified constrained learning neural root finders (NRFs) of polynomial constructed by backpropagation network (BPN). The technique is based on the relationships between the roots and the coefficients of polynomial as well as between the root moments and the coefficients of the polynomial. We investigated different resulting constrained learning algorithms (CLAs) based on the variants of the error cost functions (ECFs) in the constrained BPN and derived a new modified CLA (MCLA), and found that the computational complexities of the CLA and the MCLA based on the root-moment method (RMM) are the order of polynomial, and that the MCLA is simpler than the CLA. Further, we also discussed the effects of the different parameters with the CLA and the MCLA on the NRFs. In particular, considering the coefficients of the polynomials involved in practice to possibly be perturbed by noisy sources, thus, we also evaluated and discussed the effects of noises on the two NRFs. Finally, to demonstrate the advantage of our neural approaches over the nonneural ones, a series of simulating experiments are conducted.
An automated classification technique for large size stellar surveys is proposed. It uses the extended Kalman filter as a feature selector and pre-classifier of the data, and the radial basis function neural networks for the classification. Experiments with real data have shown that the correct classification rate can reach as high as 93%, which is quite satisfactory. When different system models are selected for the extended Kalman filter, the classification results are relatively stable. It is shown that for this particular case the result using extended Kalman filter is better than using principal component analysis.
Nearly half a century after Marvin Minsky predicted that computers would be as smart as humans, computing systems still cannot pass the Turing test. Despite impressive achievements in robotics, mathematical theorem proving, scientific classification, and advanced user interfaces, artificial intelligence remains elusive.
This paper deals with the global convergence and stability of the Hopfield-type neural networks under the critical condition that M-1 (Gamma) = L-1 D Gamma - (Gamma W + W-T Gamma) / (2) is nonnegative for any diagonal matrix Gamma, where W is the eight matrix of the network, L = diag {L-1, L-2,..., L-N} with L-i being the Lipschitz constant of g(i) and G(u) = (g(1)(u(1)),g(2)(u(2)),...g(N)(u(N)))(T) is the activation mapping of the network. Many stability results have been obtained for the Hopfield-type neural networks in the noncritical case that M-1 (Gamma) is positive definite -for some positive definite diagonal matrix F. However, very few results are available on the global convergence and stability of the networks in the critical case. In this paper, by exploring two intrinsic features of the activation mapping, two generic global convergence results are established in the critical case for the Hopfield-type neural networks, which extend most of the previously known globally asymptotic stability criteria to the critical case. The results obtained discriminate the critical dynamics of the networks, and can be applied directly to a group of Hopfield-type neural network models. An example has also been presented to demonstrate both theoretical importance and practical significance of the critical results obtained.
Based on the Weierstrass elliptic function equation, a new Weierstrass semi-rational expansion method and its algorithm axe presented. The main idea of the method changes the problem solving soliton equations into another one-solving the corresponding set of nonlinear algebraic equations. With the aid of Maple, we choose the modified KdV equation, (2+1)-dimensional KP equation, and (3+1)-dimensional Jimbo-Miwa equation to illustrate our algorithm. As a consequence, many types of new doubly periodic solutions are obtained in terms of the Weierstrass elliptic function. Moreover the corresponding new Jacobi elliptic function solutions and solitary wave solutions are also presented as simple limits of doubly periodic solutions.
In this paper, we adopt a recursive orthogonal least squares algorithm (ROLSA) to train radial basis probabilistic neural networks (RBPNN) and select the corresponding hidden centers from the training samples. The ROLSA is first used to recursively find the weights between the second hidden layer and the output layer of the RBPNN. Then, the basic principle to select the hidden centers from the training set and a detailed selection procedure are presented. The solution to orthogonal decomposition terms under the condition of varying hidden centers is obtained theoretically. Finally, the effectiveness and efficiency of our proposed approach are demonstrated by two examples. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This paper develops a new fast recursive total least squares (N-RTLS) algorithm to recursively compute the total least squares (TLS) solution for adaptive infinite-impulse-response (IIR) filtering. The new algorithm is based on the minimization of the constraint Rayleigh quotient in which the first entry of the parameter vector is fixed to the negative one. The highly computational efficiency of the proposed algorithm depends on the efficient computation of the gain vector and the adaptation of the Reyleigh quotient. Using the shift structure of the input data vectors, a fast algorithm for computing the gain vector is established, which is referred to as the fast gain vector (FGV) algorithm. The computational load of the FGV algorithm is smaller than that of the fast Kalman algorithm. Moreover, the new algorithm is numerically stable since it does not use the well-known matrix inversion lemma. The computational complexity of the new algorithm per iteration is also O(L). The global convergence of the new algorithm is studied. The performances of the relevant algorithms are compared via simulations.
This paper handles two problems in manufacturing system design: resource sharing and system abstraction. In a manufacturing system, resources such as robots, machines, etc. are shared by several processes. When the resources are switched from one process to another, they may need some modifications such as cleaning oil, adding equipments and so on. Previous designing methods assume that the resources have no intermediate modifications. Hence, they need to be extended to handle such kinds of resource-sharing problems. As for abstraction, modeling operations with single places in manufacturing system design is very popular. From the viewpoint of verification, the objective is to verify whether the reduced model has the same desirable properties as the original one. This paper presents three kinds of property-preserving subnet reduction methods. For each reduction method, conditions are presented for ensuring that the properties liveness, boundedness and reversibility are preserved. Applications of these reduction methods to handling the above resource sharing and system abstraction problems are illustrated with an example from the manufacturing system. (c) 2005 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We propose a new, to our knowledge, denoising method for lidar signals based on a regression model and a wavelet neural network (AWN) that permits the regression model not only to have a good wavelet approximation property but also to make a neural network that has a self-learning and adaptive capability for increasing the quality of lidar signals. Specifically, we investigate the performance of the WNN for antinoise approximation of lidar signals by simultaneously addressing simulated and real lidar signals. To clarify the antinoise approximation capability of the WNN for lidar signals, we calculate the atmosphere temperature profile with the real signal processed by the AWN. To show the contrast, we also demonstrate the results of the Monte Carlo moving average method and the finite impulse response filter. Finally, the experimental results show that our proposed approach is significantly superior to the traditional methods. (C) 2005 Optical Society of America.
Neural networks (NN) rely on the inner structure of available data sets rather than on comprehension of the modeled processes between inputs and outputs. Therefore, neural networks have been regarded as highly empirical models with limited extrapolation capability to situations outside the range of the training and validation data sets. In this study, the generalization ability of neural networks in predicting rice tillering dynamics was tested and several techniques inducing the generalization ability of neural networks were compared. We compared the performance of cross-validated neural networks with independent-validated neural networks and found that neural networks were able to extrapolate and predict tillering dynamics if the data were within the range of inputs of the training set. An inadequate training set resulted in overfitting of available data and neural networks that were not generalizable. The training set size required to enable a neural network to generalize and predict rice tillering dynamics was found to be at least 9 times as many training patterns for each weight. When a large number of variables are included in the input vector of a neural network with inadequate amounts of training data, we strongly recommend that the dimension of the input vector is reduced using principle component analysis (PCA), correspondence analysis (CA) or similar techniques to decrease the number of weights before the training procedure to improve the generalization ability of the NN. If the amount of training data still is not sufficient after the dimension of the input vector is reduced, regularization techniques, such as early stopping, jittering, and especially the embedment of estimated results by a theoretical model into the training set, should be used to improve the generalization ability of the neural network. The generalization of neural networks presents a wide spectrum of problems, and the proposed approaches are not confined strictly to modelling rice tillering dynamics but can be applied to other agricultural and ecological systems. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Four microsatellites were used to examine the genetic variability of the spawning stocks of Chinese sturgeon, Acipenser sinensis, from the Yangtze River sampled over a 3-year period (1999-2001). Within 60 individuals, a total of 28 alleles were detected over four polymorphic microsatellite loci. The number of alleles per locus ranged from 4 to 15, with an average allele number of 7. The number of genotypes per locus ranged from 6 to 41. The genetic diversity of four microsatellite loci varied from 0.34 to 0.67, with an average value of 0.54. For the four microsatellite loci, the deviation from the Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium was mainly due to null alleles. The mean number of alleles per locus and the mean heterozygosity were lower than the average values known for anadromous fishes. Fish were clustered according to their microsatellite characteristics using an unsupervised 'Artificial Neural Networks' method entitled 'Self-organizing Map'. The results revealed no significant genetic differentiation considering genetic distance among samples collected during different years. Lack of heterogeneity among different annual groups of spawning stocks was explained by the complex age structure (from 8 to 27 years for males and 12 to 35 years for females) of Chinese sturgeon, leading to formulate an hypothesis about the maintenance of genetic diversity and stability in long-lived animals.
This paper gives a matrix expression of logic. Under matrix expression a general description of the logical operations is proposed, which is very convenient in logical inference. Then based on matrix expression the logic operators have been extended to multi-valued logic, which provides a foundation for fuzzy systems. Finally, the logic-based fuzzy control is considered.
As web services are getting wider deployment, Web Services transaction processing(WSTP) are getting more and more attentions. There is a strong requirement for searching a new formal model to describe and reason about WSTP This paper reports one of the results of the work that examine the WST from the perspective of intelligent agents, which aims to enable WSTP by agents over heterogeneous platforms that can negotiate to initiate and perform WSTP by coordination. Based on the investigation of existing WSTP models, an agent-based WSTP model(AWM) is proposed which covers most of the features but is more abstract and generic. An WSTP implementation model is proposed based on AWM. We believe that the AWM model and implementation model contributes to the design and development WSTP using agents, and can integrate WSTP which use different protocols on heterogeneous platforms.
This paper provides a new approach to the dynamic motion planning problems of mobile robots in uncertain dynamic environments based on the behavior dynamics from an optimal control point of view. The fundamental behavior of a mobile robot in motion planning is regarded as a dynamic process of the interaction between the robot and its local environment, and then it is modeled and controlled for the motion planning purpose. Based on the optimal control of the behavior dynamics, the dynamic motion-planning problem can be transformed into a conventional optimization problem in the robot's acceleration space, and the optimal motion behavior of the mobile robot can be obtained on line. No restrictions are assumed on the shape and trajectories of obstacles. Collision avoidance between multiple mobile robots can also be realized. Stability of the whole planning-and-control system can be guaranteed. Simulations illustrate our results.
The tracking errors often occur during the position tracking because the hydraulic servo joint is a nonlinear dynamic system with saturation, dead zone and stroke coupling. In order to solve this problem, the working principal of the joint is described, and the dynamic model of the joint is established. A control compensation method with adaptive network based fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) is presented. The method enables to adjust the alterable gain coefficients by the sample data sets training and self-learning. The position tracking errors, in which saturation, dead zone and stroke coupling result, are eliminated. Eventually, the simulation results show that the method is feasible.
In this paper, the synthetical approach of behavior tree and logic syntactic representation is presented to implement task planning and behavior scheduling for autonomous motion, reconfiguration and cooperation in a new planetary rover, Reconfigurable Planetary Robot System (RPRS). This approach provides support for task decomposition, behavior scheduling, synchronization, execution monitoring and exception handling. The analytic process is illustrated in an example. The modularized design method of single child-robot is proposed and implemented. Two-layered hierarchical hybrid control architecture is designed for RPRS, which applies the centralized plan at task-level and the distributed control at motion-level. As a result, child-robots can reconfigure to some configurations and perform some tasks cooperatively. The latest results of this research are demonstrated in the experiments of the prototype.
In this paper, artificial potential field is utilized for autonomous mobile robot (AMR) path planning in dynamic uncertain environment. Firstly, in order to obtain the repulsive force from the obstacles, sonar data are used in AMR system to acquire the distance between the AMR and obstacles. And an improved Kalman filter is proposed in this paper to eliminate the sonar signal's disturbance due to the environmental noise. Secondly, by taking advantages of vision localization based on polynomial fitting, the attractive force towards the goal is obtained. At last, the effectiveness of the proposed method for the AMR path planning is verified by experiments performed on the mobile robot, CASIA-1.
In this paper, a formation control algorithm for holonomic mobile robots is developed based on a relative motion vision sensory system using the three-point perspective pose estimation algorithm, without the need for global sensing and communication between robots. This is achieved by employing the velocity variations, instead of actual velocities, as the control inputs. Simulation and experimental results have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed control method.
This paper presents a novel BP-based image retrieval(BPBIR) system(1), which is based on the observation that the images users need are often similar to a set of images with the same conception instead of one query image and the assumption that there is a nonlinear relationship between different features. If user isn't satisfied with the retrieved result, relevance feedback method is used to enhance the performance of the proposed system by changing the weights of the BP neural networks. In addition, we describe a 5-block division method to give rough information on the spatial color composition. Finally, we compare the performance of the proposed system with other systems. Experimental results show the efficacy of the proposed system.
Several traffic control systems are simply introduced, and based on the networked control presented is a new intelligent intersection control system. It is charactered by the agent-based control and the Local Simple Remote Complex (LSRC) design principle. On one hand the intelligent control of intersection is guaranteed, and on the other hand the cost of the control system is decreased. The structure and function of the whole system are described in detail. According to the characteristic of city traffic, the intersection signal is controlled by Fuzzy Neural Network, which fully uses the advantage of this system.
In this paper, novel architecture for underwater sensor networks is presented. The nodes in sensor networks are divided into fixed nodes, mobile nodes. And there are three layers defined in the architecture: surface, underwater, bottom. Nodes composed of several basic function modules in different layers communicate and collaborate each other. In this architecture, the sensor networks also can change their topology and configuration according to practical situation. An underwater mobile sensor network based on this infrastructure is under research and introduced, which involves robotics, bionics, wireless communication, etc.
A Reconfigurable Planetary Rovor System (RPRS) is presented, including the Parent body and some Child robots. The Child robot composed with the arm part and the wheel part has two moving modes: locomotion mode and manipulation mode. According to the mechanical characteristics, we proposed the two methods for the motion planning of swerving locomotion. The results of experiments showed that the robot can achieve turn during locomotion by adjusting the arm's altitude. But the Child robot's radius of left-hand turning motion during locomotion is bigger much than the radius of right-hand turning motion during locomotion and the effect is no obvious. The method of spot turning is presented by use of the difference between radial frictional force and tangential frictional force of ground and direction wheel, which is important for robot to autonomous locomotion.
Based on the structure of both biological snakes and snake-like robots and their rhythm locomotion, the theory of the cyclic inhibitory CPG is adopted as a control method to construct a neuron network model of the snake-like robot. The relation between the CPG parameters and the serpentine locomotion of the snake-like robot is defined in this paper. The validity of the serpentine locomotion controlled by the CPG model is verified through a snake-like robot. model. The modulating methods of the CPG parameters are brought forward and simulated to realize the required turn motion and the reconfiguration. Moreover, we present that real snake-like robot can successfully exhibit serpentine locomotion by using controller output of the proposed architecture. Finally, the aspects of future researches are discussed.
Based on the structure of both biological snakes and snake-like robots and their rhythmic locomotion, the musical theory is adopted as a control method to study on a snake-like robot. The relation between the rules and symbols of the musical theory and the control process of the snake-like robot is defined in this paper. Thus the data sequence of the relative angles in the serpentine locomotion is melodized. The gait score of the serpentine locomotion is utilized to control a snake-like robot named "Perambulator-I". Finally, the aspects of the future researches are discussed.
Spatial agents are widely involved in robotics, simulated situations in GIS and virtual environment. Most of these agents are controlled by high-level natural language instructions or driven by limited natural language stories coming from real people. This kind of spatial information is usually qualitative rather than quantitative and is often incomplete according to the human spatial cognitive nature. This paper presents an approach to qualitative spatial orientation reasoning in 3-dimensional spatial environment. Signs in three components represent qualitative orientations in 3D space with respect to each spatial agent. By using sign algebra and efficient methods for dealing with uncertainties, the paper proposes a method for qualitative orientation reasoning between different reference agents, from which an analytical mechanism is built. The presented method can be integrated into the perception-deliberation-action control loop in spatial agent environment.
Current agent-oriented(AO) methodologies focus mainly on multi-agent systems analysis and design, but without providing straightforward connections to the implementation of such systems with existing traditional software techniques, such as Object-Oriented(OO)techniques. In this paper we show how the Role-Based A O modeling method can be effective used to realize the transition from AO analysis results to OO implementation through a case study (police and thief experimental system).
First, a new matrix product, called the semi-tensor product of matrices, is introduced. Then the logic operators are expressed in matrix form. Based on this form, the fuzzy logic is deduced in an axiomatic form. Finally, the logic-based intelligent control is considered.
It is a very important task for graduation of the observed data in composing the Mortality Table. Currently, there are different limitations influencing the methods of graduation. In this paper, the revision of data is completed by means of neural networks. This paper mainly uses a three -to -eight -to -one's model of neural network for graduation of the observed data. As it is illustrated in the paper, the method is right, and can be generalized to the graduation of observed data of other schemes.
Adaptive inverse disturbance canceling control uses some adaptive filters. The neural network methods of training these filters have been fully researched. However, the problems of local minimum, curse of dimensionality and overfitting limit the application of neural networks. Comparatively, Support Vector Machines effectively overcome these limitations. A kind of adaptive inverse disturbance canceling control system based on least squares support vector machines (LS-SVM) is proposed. The approach of modeling and inverse modeling using LS-SVM is presented. A parameter selecting method within the Bayesian evidence framework is given for SVM regression with Gaussian kernel. Simulation results show that the approach is effective.
This paper addresses the robust trajectory tracking problem for a general class of nonholonomic systems with velocity constraints in the presence of uncertainties. The development of the proposed algorithm is based on sliding mode control technique. First, for the purpose of designing controllers, the conservative upper-bounded function of dynamics model of nonholonomic systems is derived based on the dynamics structure properties. Then, a sliding mode control scheme is presented to guarantee trajectory tracking of closed-loop system. The asymptotical or exponential stability is obtained in the Lyanupov sense. Finally, simulation examples are given to demonstrate the proposed approach.
Ant colonies behavior and their self-organizing capabilities have been popularly studied, and various swarm intelligence models and clustering algorithms also have been proposed. Unfortunately, the cluster number is often too high and convergence is also slow. We put forward a novel structure- attractor, which actively attracts and guides the ant's behavior, and implement an efficient strategy to adaptively control the clustering behavior. Our experiments show that swarm intelligence clustering algorithm based on attractor (SICBA for short) greatly improves the convergence speed and clustering quality compared with LF and also has many notable virtue such as flexibility, decentralization.
FOCAL is an on-line measurement technique of the imaging parameters of a lithographic tool with high accuracy. These parameters include field curvature, astigmatism, best focus and image tilt. They can be acquired by the least-square algorithm from the alignment positions of the special marks on the exposed wafer. But the algorithm has some intrinsic limits which may lead to a failure of the curve fitting. This will influence the measurement accuracy of the imaging parameters obtained by FOCAL. Therefore, a more reliable algorithm for the FOCAL technique is needed.
Automatic fingerprint classification is an effective means to increase the matching speed of an Automatic Fingerprint Identification System with a large-scale fingerprint database. In this paper, an automatic fingerprint classification method is proposed to classify the fingerprint image into one of five classes: Arch, Left loop, Right Loop, Whorl and Tented Arch. First, the information of core points, which is detected with a two-stage method, is applied to determine the reference point in fingerprint image. Then three different features based on statistical properties of small image blocks, which are likely to degrade with image quality deterioration, are calculated from the region of interest and form a 300-dimension feature vector. The feature vector is inputted into a three-layer Back Propagation Network (BPN) classifier and a 5-dimension vector is outputted, each dimension of which corresponds to one of 5 fingerprint classes. Finally, the fingerprints are classified with integrate analysis of the BPN classifier output and singular point information. The accuracy of 93.23% with no rejection is achieved on NIST-4 database and experimental results show that the proposed method is feasible and reliable for fingerprint classification.
In this paper, a new approach for leaf recognition using the result of segmentation of leaf's skeleton based on the combination of wavelet transform (WT) and Gaussian interpolation is proposed. And then the classifiers, a nearest neighbor classifier (1-NN), a k -nearest neighbor classifier (k-NN) and a radial basis probabilistic neural network (RBPNN) are used, based on run-length features (RF) extracted from the skeleton to recognize the leaves. Finally, the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed method is demonstrated by several experiments. The results show that the skeleton can be successfully and obviously extracted from the whole leaf, and the recognition rates of leaves based on their skeleton can be greatly improved.
In this paper, we propose a novel on-line handwritten signature verification method. Firstly, the pen-position parameters of the on-line signature are decomposed into multiscale signals by wavelet transform technique. For each signal at different scales, we can get a corresponding zero-crossing representation. Then the distances between the input signature and the reference signature of the corresponding zero-crossing representations are computed as the features. Finally, we build a binary Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier to demonstrate the advantages of the multiscale zero-crossing representation approach over the previous methods. Based on a common benchmark database, the experimental results show that the average False Rejection Rate (FRR) and False Acceptance Rate (FAR) are 5.25% and 5%, respectively, which illustrates such new approach to be quite effective and reliable.
This paper proposes two methods which take advantage of k -mean clustering algorithm to decrease the number of support vectors (SVs) for the training of support vector machine (SVM). The first method uses k -mean clustering to construct a dataset of much smaller size than the original one as the actual input dataset to train SVM. ne second method aims at reducing the number of SVs by which the decision function of the SVM classifier is spanned through k -mean clustering. Finally, Experimental results show that this improved algorithm has better performance than the standard Sequential Minimal Optimization (SMO) algorithm.
In many regression applications, there exist common cases for users to know qualitatively, yet partially, about nonlinear relationships of physical systems. This paper presents a novel direction for constructing feedforward neural networks (FNNs) which are subject to the given nonlinear relationships. The "Integrated models", associating FNNs with the given nonlinear functions, are proposed. Significant benefits will be obtained over the conventional FNNs by using these models. First, they add a certain degree of comprehensive power for nonlinear approximators. Second, they may provide better generalization capabilities. Two issues are discussed about the improved approximation and the estimation of the real parameters to the partially known function in the proposed models. Numerical studies are given in comparing with the conventional FNNs.
This paper points out some drawbacks and proposes some modifications to the conventional layer-by-layer BP algorithm. In particular, we present a new perspective to the learning rate, which is to use a heuristic rule to define the learning rate so as to update the weights. Meanwhile, to pull the algorithm out of saturation area and prevent it from converging to a local minimum, a momentum term is introduced to the former algorithm. And finally the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed method are demonstrated by two benchmark examples.
In this paper, a novel mathematical model of neuron-Double Synaptic Weight Neuron (DSWN)(l) is presented. The DSWN can simulate many kinds of neuron architectures, including Radial-Basis-Function (RBF), Hyper Sausage and Hyper Ellipsoid models, etc. Moreover, this new model has been implemented in the new CASSANN-II neurocomputer that can be used to form various types of neural networks with multiple mathematical models of neurons. The flexibility of the DSWN has also been described in constructing neural networks. Based on the theory of Biomimetic Pattern Recognition (BPR) and high-dimensional space covering, a recognition system of omni directionally oriented rigid objects on the horizontal surface and a face recognition system had been implemented on CASSANN-II neurocomputer. In these two special cases, the result showed DSWN neural network had great potential in pattern recognition.
Ant colonies behavior and their self-organizing capabilities have been popularly studied, and various swarm intelligence models and clustering algorithms also have been proposed, Unfortunately, the cluster number is often too high and convergence is also slow. We put forward a novel structure-attractor, which actively attracts and guides the ant's behavior, and implement an efficient strategy to adaptively control the clustering behavior. Our experiments show that swarm intelligence clustering algorithm based on attractor (SICABA for short) greatly improves the convergence speed and clustering quality compared with LF and also has many notable virtues such as flexibility, decentralization compared with conventional algorithms.
The differences between connectionism and symbolicism in artificial intelligence (AI) are illustrated on several aspects in details firstly; then after conceptually decision factors of connectionism are proposed, the commonalities between connectionism and symbolicism are tested to make sure, by some quite typical logic mathematics operation examples such as "parity"; At last, neuron structures are expanded by modifying neuron weights and thresholds in artificial neural networks through adopting high dimensional space geometry cognition, which give more overall development space, and embodied further both commonalities.
In this paper, a new modified hybrid learning algorithm for feedforward neural networks is proposed to obtain better generalization performance. For the sake of penalizing both the input-to-output mapping sensitivity and the high frequency components in training data, the first additional cost term and the second one are selected based on the first-order derivatives of the neural activation at the hidden layers and the second-order derivatives of the neural activation at the output layer, respectively. Finally, theoretical justifications and simulation results are given to verify the efficiency and effectiveness of our proposed learning algorithm.
This paper proposes a reinforcement learning based radial-basis function network control system (RL-RBFNCS) to solve non-training data based learning of radial-basis function network controllers (RBFNC). In learning process, a major contribution is by using the critic signal and the stochastic exploration method to estimate the "desired output", reinforcement learning is considered and solved from the point of view of training data based learning. Computer simulations of robot obstacle avoidance in unknown environment are conducted to show the performance of the proposed method.
This paper presents a method of Sparse Kernel Fisher Discriminant Analysis (SKFDA) through approximating the implicit within-class scatter matrix in feature space. Traditional Kernel Fisher Discriminant Analysis (KFDA) has to use all the training samples to construct the implicit within-class scatter matrix while SKFDA needs only small part of them. Based on this idea, the aim of sparseness can be obtained. Experiments show that SKFDA can dramatically reduce the number of training samples used for constructing the implicit within-class scatter matrix. Numerical simulations on "Banana Shaped" and "Ripley and Ionosphere" data sets confirm that SKFDA has the merit of decreasing the training complexity of KFDA.
Recently, wavelet transform and image fusion mechanism have been used in face recognition to improve the performance. In this paper, we propose a new face recognition method based on wavelet transform and radial basis function (RBF) fusion network. Firstly, an image is decomposed with wavelet transform (WT) to three levels. Secondly, the Fisherface method is applied to three low-frequency sub-images respectively. Then, the individual classifiers are fused using the RBF neural network. Experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms both individual classifiers and the direct Fisherface method.
This paper proposes a novel algorithm based on informax for post-nonlinear blind source separation. The demixing system culminates to a neural network with sandwiched structure. The corresponding parameter learning algorithm for the proposed network is presented through maximizing the joint output entropy of the networks, which is equivalent to minimizing the mutual information between the output signals in this algorithm, whereas need not to know the marginal probabilistic density function (PDF) of the outputs as in minimizing the mutual information. The experimental results about separating post-nonlinear mixture stimulant signals and real speech signals show that our proposed method is efficient and effective.
Contextual information and a priori knowledge play important roles in image segmentation based on neural networks. This paper proposed a method for including contextual information in a model-based neural network (MBNN) that has the advantage of combining a priori knowledge. This is achieved by including Markov random field (MRF) into the MBNN and this novel neural network is termed as MRF-MBNN. Then the proposed method is applied to segmenting the images. Experimental results indicate the MRF-MBNN is superior to the MBNN in image segmentation. This study is a successful attempt of incorporating contextual information and a prior knowledge into neural networks to segment images.
The performance of financial forecasting with neural networks dependents on the particular training set. We design mean-change-point test to divide the original dataset into different training sets. The experiment results show that the larger training set does not necessarily produce better forecasting performance. Although the original datasets are different, the change-points to produce the optimal training sets are close to each other. We can select the suitable size of training set for financial forecasting with neural networks based on the mean-change-point test.
To navigate reliably in indoor environments, a mobile robot has to know where it is. The methods for pose (position and orientation) estimation can be roughly divided into two classes: methods for keeping track of the robot's pose and methods for global pose estimation [1]. In this paper, a neural network-based camera calibration method is presented for the global localization of mobile robots with monocular vision. In order to localize and navigate the robot using vision information, the camera has to be first calibrated. We calibrate the camera using the neural network based method, which can simplify the tedious calibration process and does not require specialized knowledge of the 3D geometry and computer vision. The monocular vision is used to initialize and recalibrate the robot's pose, and the extended Kalman filter is adopted to keep track of the mobile robot's pose.
A model of wavelet neural network (WNN) using a new evolutionary learning algorithm is proposed in this paper. This new evolutionary learning algorithm is based on a hybrid of Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) and gradient descent algorithm (GD), and is thus called HGDPSO. The Particle Swarm Optimizer has previously been used to train neural networks and generally met with success. The advantage of the PSO over many of the other optimization algorithms is its relative simplicity and quick convergence. But those particles collapse so quickly that it exits a potentially dangerous property: stagnation, which state would make it impossible to arrive at the global optimum, even a local optimum. HGDPSO was proposed for neural network training to avoid premature and eliminate stagnation in PSO. The effectiveness of the HGDPSO based WNN is demonstrated through the classification of the fault signals in rotating machinery. The simulated results show its feasibility and validity.
A new approach to model multi-agent systems with hierarchical colored Petri nets is introduced. Every agent has its colored Petri net system, when agents are composed into a MAS, we get hierarchical colored Petri net system of the multi-agent system, properties of the hierarchical colored Petri net system. such as reachability, deadlock detection and avoidance, fairness can be used to analyze dynamic properties of the multi-agent system.
This paper is concerned with the global robust stability of a class of delayed interval recurrent neural networks which contain time-invariant uncertain parameters whose values are unknown but bounded in given compact sets. A new sufficient condition is presented for the existence, uniqueness, and global robust stability of equilibria for interval neural networks with time delays by constructing Lyapunov functional and using matrix-norm inequality. An error is corrected in an earlier publication, and an example is given to show the effectiveness of the obtained results. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In stereoscopic vision, there are two artificial eyes implemented so that it can obtain two separate views of the scene and simulate the binocular depth perception of human beings. Traditionally, camera calibration and 3D reconstruction of such a vision sensor are performed by geometrical solutions. However, the traditional camera model is very complicated since nonlinear factors in it and needs to approximate the light projection scheme by a number of parameters. It is even very difficult to model some highly distorted vision sensors, such as fish-eye lens. In order to simplify both the camera calibration and 3D reconstruction procedures, this work presents a method based on neural networks which is brought forward according to the characteristics of neural network and stereoscopic vision. The relation between spatial points and image points is established by training the network without the parameters of the cameras, such as focus, distortions besides the geometry of the system. The training set for our neural network consists of a variety of stereo-pair images and corresponding 3D world coordinates. Then the 3D reconstruction of a new s cene is simply using the trained network. Such a method is more similar to how human's eyes work. Simulations and real data are used to demonstrate and evaluate the procedure. We observe that the errors obtained from our experimentation are accurate enough for most machine-vision applications.
This paper investigates the fault detection and prediction of rhythmically soniferous products, such as clocks, watches and timers. Such products with fault cannot work steadily or probably cause malfunction. The authors extend the concept of computer audition and establish an architectural model of product fault prediction system based on probabilistic neural networks. The system listens to the product sound by the multimedia technology and the sound features are extracted to detect and predict faults by the neural network. The paper analyzes the reasons of timer faults and the corresponding sound features. Experiments are made in the laboratory to demonstrate the proposed method. The technology is expected to apply in factories in coming years for realizing automatic product test and improving efficiency of product inspection.
This study proposes a novel forecasting approach - an adaptive smoothing neural network (ASNN) - to predict foreign exchange rates. In this new model, adaptive smoothing techniques are used to adjust the neural network learning parameters automatically by tracking signals under dynamic varying environments. The ASNN model can make the network training process and convergence speed faster, and make network's generalization stronger than the traditional multi-layer feed-forward network (MLFN) model does. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed model, three major international currencies (British pounds, euros and Japanese yen) are chosen as the forecasting targets. Empirical analyses reveal that the proposed novel forecasting model outperforms the other comparable models. Furthermore, experimental results also show that the proposed model is an effective alternative approach for foreign exchange rate forecasting.
The absolute orientation technique, minimizing the mean squared error between two matched point sets under similarity transformations, has numerously applied in the areas of photogrammetry, robotics, object motion analysis as well as object pose estimation following recognition. Based on it, in this paper, a total least squares fitting algorithm, which generates a fixed point set from k corresponding original point sets and minimizes the mean squared error between the fixed point sets and these k point sets, is proposed and proved. Experiments and interesting applications are also presented to show its efficiency, accuracy and robustness.
By utilizing some of the important properties of wavelets like denoising, compression, multiresolution along with the concepts of fuzzy logic and neural network, a new self-constructing fuzzy wavelet neural networks (SCFWNN) using compensatory fuzzy operators are proposed for intelligent fault diagnosis. An on-line learning algorithm is applied to automatically construct the SCFWNN. There are no rules initially in the SCFWNN. They are created and adapted as on-line learning proceeds via simultaneous structure and parameter learning. The advantages of this learning algorithm are that it converges quickly and the obtained fuzzy rules are more precise. The proposed SCFWNN is much more powerful than either the neural network or the fuzzy system since it can incorporate the advantages of both. The results of simulation show that this SCFWNN method has the advantage of faster learning rate and higher diagnosing precision.
A genetic algorithm (GA) based composite sliding mode fuzzy control (CSMFC) approach is proposed for the double-pendulum-type overhead crane (DPTOC). The overhead crane exhibits double-pendulum dynamics because of the large-mass hook and the payload volume. Its nonlinear dynamic model is built using Lagrangian method. Through. defining a composite sliding mode function, the proposed control approach greatly reduces the complexity to design a controller for complex underactuated systems. The control system stability is analyzed for DPTOC. Real-valued GA is used to optimize the parameters of CSMFC to improve the performance of control system. Simulation results illustrate the complexity of DPTOC and the validity of proposed control algorithm.
In this paper we present a new feature of texture images which can scale the uniformity degree of image texture directions. The feature value is obtained by examining the statistic characteristic of the gradient information of the image pixels. Simulation results illustrate that this feature can exactly coincide with the uniformity degree of image texture directions according to the perception of human eyes.
This paper describes a new communication load reduction method ontask negotiation with Contract Net Protocol (CNP) in a multi-agent system. For coordination the agents, the CNP is widely used during the problem solving. But its performance degrades drastically when communicating agents and tasks increase. In order to overcome this problem, Fuzzy Case Based Reasoning (FCBR) is used in CNP, it can reduce the scope of competitors and communication load on task negotiation, make a distinct improvement to the efficiency. At the same time, in FCBR system a new cases maintaining method based on time-serial is proposed in order to ensure a better cooperation between agents and adapt to higher flexibility of system. Experimental results show the performance of the protocol based on FCBR improves significantly.
Introspective learning, as a method to improve the learning efficiency, has become an active area of research. In this paper, Introspective learning and a general introspective learning mode are discussed Some related problems such as Meta-level reasoning, taxonomy of failure, and the relation between case-based reasoning and introspective learning are represented Based on the importance of case-based reasoning in introspective learning, a case representation and case retrieval mechanism appropriate to introspective learning are described in detail.
This paper presents an adaptive neuro-fuzzy control strategy for the bridge type superconducting fault current controller (SFCC), which can automatically decide the phase-delay angle according to the fault current amplitude, limit the fault current amplitude to the degree that the system can endure, and recover to the normal situation immediately after the fault current ceases. Simulation results show that this design's performance is good.
In order to develop a kind of universal controller that is very convenient in actual applications, it is necessary to utilize the universal approximation characteristic of an intelligent control algorithm. But it is very hard to implement control in real-time because of the large amount of computation needed. A fuzzy control, with human simulated intelligent weight coefficient, was selected as the control algorithm, since its computations are less than that of the other intelligent approaches. To improve the performance in real time, a high-speed memory address mapping approach was adopted as the hardware implementation. The entire ideas, including the algorithm and approach, are introduced in detail. Based on theoretical studies, corresponding hardware circuits were designed, and this kind of fuzzy controller was developed. In the experimental study, the experimental device of machine control was selected, and the fuzzy controller developed to manipulate the machine's speed was applied. Under the same experimental conditions, the control performance of the fuzzy controller was excellent with respect to its speed. The control quality was found to be better than that of PID hardware circuit control system.
Because the parameters of car-engines are of the discreteness, nonlinear and uncertain characteristics, a conventional control model can not accurately control the excess air coefficient and the spark advance angle in dynamic procedures. A new auto-optimized fuzzy control model based on genetic arithmetic was introduced. The controller design scheme based on using an embedded operating system to achieve such a control model was discussed. Based on a real-time simulation, using GA resulted in the fuzzy control parameters being optimized automatically. The results of experiments showed that the dynamic indexes and the fuel economy indexes can be improved greatly. The model has the obvious advantage of reducing fuel consumption.
The robotics soccer game is a standard task platform, the soccer robot is one form of the artificial life body. Based on this platform, in terms of the action-selection model of artificial life, carries a comparable and valid study. Firstly, this paper analyses the action layer and the action type of the soccer robot. Then, according to the behavior selection model of artificial life body based on priority degree, improves the action selection model of the soccer robot. Finally, builds the decision-making system of soccer robot based on the model, and this system has been applied in the actual games of soccer robot, the result indicates that it is workable and efficient.
An AC motor belongs to the category of a controlled object that is multi-variable, nonlinear and strong correlation, complex to mathematical model, and whose control performance is affected by a time-changing parameter. Therefore, it is very difficult to obtain the desired static and dynamic characteristic through a general fixed regulator. In this paper, the authors present a compound intelligent control strategy, combined with a neural network and fuzzy control. Considering that a neural network is good at self-learning, and a single fuzzy control algorithm is rapid in its response characteristics, the compound control strategy can compensate for a disadvantage of fuzzy control, which is associated with poor stability and precision and also requires solving a puzzle in the time-changing parameters in the controlled object. On the basis of a dynamic model of the permanent magnetic synchronous motor and its working principle, the authors designed the block diagram of a control system, combined a neural PID control and fuzzy control, and studied the corresponding control algorithm in detail. The simulation results show that the compound intelligent control system is good in dynamic performance and robustness.
In this study, a hybrid artificial intelligent (AI) system integrating neural network and expert system is proposed to support foreign exchange (forex) trading decisions. In this system, a neural network is used to predict the forex price in terms of quantitative data, while an expert system is used to handle qualitative factor and to provide forex trading decision suggestions for traders incorporating experts' knowledge and the neural network's results. The effectiveness of the proposed hybrid AI system is illustrated by simulation experiments.
Sea surface air temperature (Ta) and relative humidity (RH) have been the main parameters of climate studies. In the past, the data can be obtained from observations, but the observations are sparse, especially over ocean. Now we can get the aid of satellites, but it is impossible to estimate them from satellites directly so far. This paper presents a new method to derive monthly averaged Ta and RH from satellite data using artificial neural networks (ANN). For Ta estimation, four inputs are needed: wind speed, cloud liquid water, total precipitable water from SSM/I and sea surface temperature (SST) from AVHRP, the data to develop and train the methodology are offered by Tropical Atmosphere Ocean (TAO) project and National Database Buoy Center (NDBC). For RH estimation, the methodology is similar with the method of Ta estimation, except adding the parameter of rain rate (from SSM/I) as the fifth inputs. Comparison with independent validation samples in the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans indicate the result of Ta and RH estimated from satellite data is reasonable well. The root mean square (RMS) and the correlation between estimated and measured air temperature are about 0.94 degrees C and 0.98, respectively. The RMS and the correlation of relative humidity are about 3.74 and 0.64, respectively. The simple statistical formula is also obtained in this paper. Compared with ANN methodology, the statistical formula is intuitionistic and the result is reasonable accepted.
Chlorophyll a concentration is very important for assessment of marine environmental pollution and estimation of oceanic primary productivity. Only remote sensing can provide continuous, real-time and large-scale chlorophyll a concentration information in oceans. Traditional empirical chlorophyll algorithms don't perform well especially in coastal waters partly, for the nonlinear nature of transfer function. However, the neural networks (NN) are able to model any nonlinear function flexibly. On basis of SeaWiFS imagery and in situ chlorophyll a concentration measured in the sea area near Dalian in China, Neural Network(NN) with the architecture of 2 inputs, 6 nodes in a single hidden layer and I output was employed to retrieve chlorophyll a concentration. Regression analysis was also conducted. The R of NN and that of regression equation were 0.976, 0.5572 respectively; RMSE (root mean square error) were 0.112, 0.387 respectively. Distribution map of chlorophyll a retrieved from NN is consistent with previous research. NN is more accurate better than regression method for retrieval of chlorophyll a concentration and it is a promising method for research of oceanic constituents in Case 2 waters.
As we don't know clearly about the soil salinity spectral behavior and that it is not easy to obtain adequate data, the Grey System Theory is developed in this study. On the base of studying the spectral characteristics of salt and the Mechanism of surveying salt concentration using remote sensing data, took 9 bands of ASTER hands as the sub-factors and salt concentration using as the mother factor. The spectral data was calculated by field spectral data based oil ASTER channel function. The field spectral data was obtained by using ASD(0.35-2.5 square m). We got 28 points in Aibi lake in Xinjiang,China, in July,2(H)4. According to the ASTER hand series, the correlative degree between reference salt concentration is and 0.761,0.760,0.757,0.741,0.610,0.740,0.740,0.738,0.736 respectively We can see that ASTER band1 has the greatest correlative degree. Band1 are the sensitive band to soil salinity. The next is band2, then band3. It means that the shorter wavelength, the greater correlation in visual and near visual bands. It accords with that blue band is sensitive to salt. Further we will use ASTER image data to analysis it and establish model to predict it basing on the Grey Sytem Theory.
Recursive loops in a logic program present a challenging problem to the PLP framework. On the one hand, they loop forever so that the PLP backward-chaining inferences would never stop. On the other hand, they generate cyclic influences, which are disallowed in Bayesian networks. Therefore, in existing PLP approaches logic programs with recursive loops are considered to be problematic and thus are excluded. In this paper, we propose an approach that makes use of recursive loops to build a stationary dynamic Bayesian network. Our work stems from an observation that recursive loops in a logic program imply a time sequence and thus can be used to model a stationary dynamic Bayesian network without using explicit time parameters. We introduce a Bayesian knowledge base with logic clauses of the form A <- A(1),....A(l), true, Context, Types, which naturally represents the knowledge that the A(i)s have direct influences on A in the context Context under the type constraints Types. We then use the well-founded model of a logic program to define the direct influence relation and apply SLG-resolution to compute the space of random variables together with their parental connections. We introduce a novel notion of influence clauses, based on which a declarative semantics for a Bayesian knowledge base is established and algorithms for building a two-slice dynamic Bayesian network from a logic program are developed.
Principal Component Regression (PCR), Partial Least Square (PLS) and Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) methods are used in the analysis for the near infrared (NIR) spectra of glucose in the whole blood. The calibration model is built up in the spectrum band where there are the glucose has much more spectral absorption than the water, fat, and protein with these methods and the correlation coefficients of the model are showed in this paper. Comparing these results, a suitable method to analyze the glucose NIR spectrum in the whole blood is found.
In this study, a hybrid intelligent data mining methodology, genetic algorithm based support vector machine (GASVM) model, is proposed to explore stock market tendency. In this hybrid data mining approach, GA is used for variable selection in order to reduce the model complexity of SVM and improve the speed of SVM, and then the SVM is used to identify stock market movement direction based on the historical data. To evaluate the forecasting ability of GASVM, we compare its performance with that of conventional methods (e.g., statistical models and time series models) and neural network models. The empirical results reveal that GASVM outperforms other forecasting models, implying that the proposed approach is a promising alternative to stock market tendency exploration.
Behavior analysis of credit cardholders is one of the main research topics in credit card portfolio management. Usually, the cardholder's behavior, especially bankruptcy, is measured by a score of aggregate attributes that describe cardholder's spending history. In the real-life practice, statistics and neural networks are the major players to calculate such a score system for prediction. Recently, various multiple linear programming based classification methods have been promoted for analyzing credit cardholders' behaviors. As a continuation of this research direction, this paper proposes an integrated classification method by using the fuzzy linear programming (FLP) with moving boundary and Fisher Linear Discriminant analysis(LDA). This method can improve the accurate rate in theory. In the end, a real-life credit database from a major US bank is used for explaining the idea as an example.
Fuzzy logic control, neural networks and expert systems are the three main branches of intelligence control. In automatic technique domains, fuzzy control is implemented in many control processes. Modem industries require control systems with high control precision, fast response, minimal in overshoot and robust dealing with complicated, uncertainty and nonlinear processes. Conventional control systems are largely restricted in some aspects and cannot solve automatic control questions from fundamentally speaking. Accordingly, intelligent control systems have been successfully implemented in many industrial applications. This thesis mainly summaries recent development of fuzzy control systems. There is an example about a boiler as a controlled object whose temperature is controlled based on fuzzy control systems On the basis of MATLAB and its toolboxes, this paper brief us analysis with the help of MATLAB. By comparison of simulation on MATLAB between fuzzy control system and normal PID control system, the advantages of the former with perfect dynamic performance such as good stability, strong robust and high precision can be reached in some control processes. But while fuzzy control theories are widely applied, some questions still haven't been well solved, such as system multi-variations input and so on. With further research on fuzzy control theory, it will play a more important role in science and technology domains.
Artificial Neural Network (ANN) is a significant branch of artificial intelligence, which is a method of control approximately without modeling. It has stronger capabilities of adaptivity and self-study. Power electronic system is a complex nonlinear dynamic system. It is an obvious trend to apply the theory of artificial neural network to the power electronic system. This paper is mainly focused on the artificial neural network in power electronic systems. It reviews the history of ANN, and presents the BP neural network in detail, which is much more popular in the area of fault diagnosis nowadays. And gives a survey of the applications of fault diagnosis using ANN.
In daily life, people spend a lot of time in group activities, such as communication, debate, collaboration and consensus achieving for problem solving where creative ideas are expected to be generated by active interaction and stimulation between participants. In this paper, we focus on exploring effective computerized support for group argumentation, mainly on group brainstorming for idea generation. Versatile aids are explored, such as visualization of expert opinion structure, text-mining of external information, clustering of contributed opinions and various analysis about participation, etc. and integrated into a group argumentation environment (GAE), to support the emergence of a ba for knowledge creation. We apply such an enviornment to top-level small-scale academic conferences (Xiangshan Science Conference) on frontiers of science and technology in China.
This paper presents a modified particle swarm optimization (PSO) with simulated annealing (SA) technique. An improved PSO-based artificial neural network (ANN) is developed. The results show that the proposed SAPSO-based ANN has a better ability to escape from a local optimum and is more effective than the conventional PSO-based ANN. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Objective: In order to improve the prognosis of pancreatic cancer patients, it is crucial to explore novel tools for its early diagnosis. Here, we attempted to screen serum biomarkers to distinguish pancreatic cancer from non-cancer individuals. Methods: 47 serum samples from pancreatic cancer patients, 39 of whom had small surgically resectable cancers, were collected before surgery, and an additional 53 serum samples from age- and sex-matched individuals without cancer were used as controls. The surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization (SELDI) ProteinChip was applied to analyze serum protein profiling. 54 samples ( 27 with pancreatic cancer and 27 controls) were analyzed in the training set by a decision tree algorithm to be able to separate pancreatic cancer from controls. A double-blind test was used to determine the sensitivity and specificity of the classification model. Results: A panel of six biomarkers was selected to set up a decision tree as the classification model. The model separated effectively pancreatic cancer from control samples, achieving a sensitivity of 88.9% and a specificity of 74.1%. The double-blind test challenged the model with a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 84.6%. Conclusion: The SELDI ProteinChip combined with an artificial intelligence classification algorithm shows great potential for the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. Copyright (C) 2005 S. Karger AG, Basel.
A tool named active lap could fit the aspheric optical surface to grit and polish controlled by CMAC neural networks is introduced. The solution to control the surface of active lap by CMAC neural networks is depicted based on the analyses of active lap control system. The structure and principle of CMAC neural networks model are introduced. A method to test and reconstruct the surface of active lap is put forward. We have the pulse voltage and Zernike polynomial coefficients of surface as input samples and output samples to train the CMAC neural networks until the output meet demand, then the deform of lap's surface could be controlled by the trained CMAC neural networks. The original data from the micro displacement sensor matrix are interpolated and fitted to reconstruct the surface of active lap, the coefficient of Zernike polynomial fitted form reconstruct data by Gram-Schimdt method is looked as input samples to train the CMAC neural networks. The experiment of three units active lap was made to test the method mentioned above, the feasibility for multi units active lap controlling is discussed base on the simulation of 9 units and 18 units active lap, as well as the analysis of experiment and simulation results.
This paper presents a ubiquitous computing technology called Virtual Personal Computing Environment (VPCE), which enables users to access their personalized computing environments anywhere using any available terminals. The key feature of the VPCE is that it can be constructed dynamically by reassembling application services and resources distributed over networks, which is different from the traditional desktop personal computing environment that is tied to an individual computer to execute. In VPCE, users work with a heterogeneous collection of application services, and data access by application as well as the application accessed by users are distributed over networks, while the applications and data distribution is transparent to the users.
In this paper we apply object-oriented methods and the semantic network in artificial intelligence flexibly to video data modeling, and propose a semantic object network based (SONB) video data model. The semantic object network plays the role of human beings' minds association ability, so the SONB model supports semantic retrieval.
Combined neural networks with simple adaptive control, at the time, optimized neural networks by genetic algorithms, a new control method-neural network simple adaptive control based on genetic algorithms is proposed in this paper. The structures and learning algorithms of this control method are derived. The simulation results show that the proposed method has fine accuracy, dynamic character and robustness; it is feasible and effective when it is used to control high-order linear systems and non-linear systems.
This paper presents a novel neural network integrating both Gauss neural network and Chebyshev neural network. The Gauss-Chebyshev neural networks take advantages of the Gauss kernel for local approximation ability, but the Chebyshev one for global generalization ability. Numerical experiments confirm the new strategy on the better performance in comparison with Gauss neural networks. Furthermore, under the same initialization conditions, Gauss-Chebyshev neural network is more efficient than Gauss-Sigmoid neural network for regression application. All eight functions tested from the experiments show the improvements of the proposed neural networks.
The subject of machine condition monitoring is charged with developing new technologies to diagnose the machinery problems. A problem with diagnostic techniques is that they require constant human interpretation of the results. Fuzzy neural networks show good ability of self-adaption and self-learning, wavelet transformation or analysis shows the time frequency location characteristic and multi-scale ability. Inspired by these advantages, a wavelet fuzzy neural network (WFNN) is proposed for fault diagnosis in this paper. This fuzzy neural network uses wavelet basis function as membership function whose shape can be adjusted on line so that the networks have better learning and adaptive ability. An on-line learning algorithm is applied to automatically construct the wavelet fuzzy neural network. There are no rules initially in the wavelet fuzzy neural network. They are created and adapted as on-line learning proceeds via simultaneous structure and parameter learning. The advantages of this learning algorithm are that it converges quickly and the obtained fuzzy rules are more precise. The results of simulation show that this SWFNN network method has the advantage of faster learning rate and higher diagnosing precision.
Radial Basis Function Neural Networks (RBF NN) are frequently used for learning the rule of complex phenomenon and system. But kernel matrix computation for high dimensional data source demands heavy computing power. To shorten the computing time, the paper designs a parallel algorithm to compute the kernel function matrix of RBF NN and applies it to the prediction of converter re-vanadium modeling. This paper studies the possibility of using parallel kernel RBF regression for modeling an intelligent decision system for re-vanadium in metallurgical process. The paper then implements the algorithm on a cluster of computing workstations using MPI Finally, we experiment with the practical data to study the speedups and accuracy of the algorithm. The proposed algorithm proves to be effective and practicable in its application.
The analytical study of a large scale nonlinear neural network is an uneasy task. We try to analyze the function of neural systems by probing into the fuzzy logical framework of the neural cells' dynamical equations. Many papers investigate the relation between fuzzy logic and neural system. But most investigations focus on finding new function of neural system by combining fuzzy logical and neural system. In this paper, a novel approach is used to understand the nonlinear dynamic characteristics of neural system by analyzing the fuzzy logic framework of neural cells. It is the only way to understand the behavior of a large scale nonlinear neural system. By abstracting the fuzzy logical framework of a neural cell, our analysis enables the delicate design of network models. As an example, a difficulty task to build a recurrent network model of primary visual cortex by common dynamical analysis can be easily completed by this kind approach.
In speaker-independent speech recognition, the disadvantage of the most diffused technology ( Hidden Markov Models) is not only the need of many more training samples, but also long train time requirement. This paper describes the use of Biomimetic Pattern Recognition (BPR) in recognizing some Mandarin Speech in a speaker-independent manner. The vocabulary of the system consists of 15 Chinese dish's names. Neural networks based on Multi-Weight Neuron (MWN) model are used to train and recognize the speech sounds. Experimental results are presented to show that the system, which can carry out real time recognition of the persons from different provinces speaking common Chinese speech, outperforms HMMs especially in the cases of samples of a finite size.
In this paper, we firstly give the nature of 'hypersausages', study its structure and training of the network, then discuss the nature of it by way of experimenting with ORL face database, and finally, verify its unsurpassable advantages compared with other means.
The semi-active suspension, which consists of passive spring and active shock absorber in the light of different road conditions and automobile running conditions, is the most popular automotive suspension because active suspension is complicated in structure and passive suspension cannot meet the demands of various road conditions and automobile running conditions. In this paper, a neurofuzzy adaptive control controller via modeling of recurrent neural networks of automotive suspension is presented. The modeling of neural networks has identified automotive suspension dynamic parameters and provided learning signals to neurofuzzy adaptive control controller. In order to verify control results, a mini-bus fitted with magnetorheological fluid shock absorber and neurofuzzy control system based on DSP microprocessor has been experimented with various velocity and road surfaces. The control results have been compared with those of open loop passive suspension system. These results show that neural control algorithm exhibits good performance to reduction of mini-bus vibration.
Consider a simple but typical distributed system of n autonomous agents. Each agent moves with the same speed but with different headings which are updated by using a local rule based on the average of its own heading plus the headings of its neighbors. This model captures the major features of flocking behavior of birds. In this paper, we are trying to control the headings of a group of agents but do not (1) use centralized methods; (2) change the local rule of the existing agents in the system. A case study is to coordinate the headings of agents by adding one Shill agent. It is a natural way to intervene in the collective behavior of distributed systems, but different from the approach of distributed control. It may bring out many interesting issues and challenges on the control of complex systems.
In this paper, we put forword a framework for a class of multi-agent systems based on local-global feedback control, which has the following features : 1)each agent has its own dynamics, and we assume in this paper that it can be described by linear discrete dynamical equations with noises, 2)each agent is coupled with other agents by optimizing its own cost functions. We will study how the mean-square stability of the system is influenced by the system parameters.
This paper gives a matrix expression of logic. Under matrix expression a general description of the logical operations is proposed, which is very convenient in logical inference. Then based on matrix expression the logic operators have been extended to multi-valued logic, which provides a foundation for fuzzy systems. Finally, the logic-based fuzzy control is considered.
In this paper a new method for recognition of 2D occluded shapes based on neural network using generalized differential evolution training algorithm is proposed. Firstly, a generalized differential evolution (GDE) algorithm is introduced. And this GDE algorithm is applied to train multilayer perceptron neural networks. Then a new shape feature, refer to as multiscale Fourier descriptors (MFDs) is proposed. Finally, the superiority of GDE training method over traditional approaches to train networks is demonstrated by experiment. The experimental results show that our proposed GDE training method is much efficient and effective. And they also showed that the MFDs method is suitable for the shape recognition.
This paper(1) presents a novel BP-based image retrieval (BPBIR) system, which is based on the observation that the images users need are often similar to a set of images with the same conception instead of one query image and the assumption that there is a nonlinear relationship between different features. If users aren't satisfied with the retrieved results, relevance feedback method is used to enhance the performance of the proposed system by changing the weights of the BP neural networks. In addition, we discuss some divisional methods to give rough information on the spatial color composition. Finally, we compare the performance of the proposed system with other systems. Experimental results show the efficacy of the proposed system.
By using the feedback of genetic information and heuristic rules, and incorporating local searching algorithms, rational genetic algorithm (RGA) is proposed to overcome the drawbacks of conventional genetic algorithms (GAs) such as slow convergence. Genetic Information was defined, which is the feed-back information derived from evolutionary process to supervise GA's operations. Furthermore, heuristic rules and local searching algorithms were also effectively incorporated in RGA to enhance the correctness of genetic operations. Finally, a general specification for the whole RGA was provided. RGA effectively incorporates inheriting and learning behaviors of knowledge and experiences in species into conventional GA. From the theoretical analysis of RGA and case studies in practical application to path planning problems of robots, it can be seen that the proposed RGA has faster convergence speed, and can converge to the global optimal solution.
Wavelet neural networks (WNN) combing the properties of the wavelet transform and the advantages of Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) have attracted great interest and become a popular tool for various fields of mathematics and engineering. We describe here the application of WNN to the fault diagnosis of rotating machinery. In this paper, the wavelet network architecture for intelligent fault diagnosis is first introduced. Then an optimization method of neural network and a training algorithm is developed. Finally, Feedforward backpropagation neural network (BP) and wavelet neural networks are compared for fault diagnosis. The aim of this study is to examine the effective of the WNN model for fault diagnosis. Experiment results shows that the WNN has advantages of rapid training, generality and accuracy over feedforward backpropagation neural network.
The theory of rough sets is an extension of the set theory, for the study of intelligent systems characterized by insufficient and incomplete information. Since proposed by Pawlak, rough sets have evoked a lot of research. Theoretic study has included algebra aspect of rough sets. In paper [1] the concept of rough group and rough subgroup was introduced, but with some deficiencies remaining. In this paper, we intend to make up for these shortages, improve definitions of rough group and rough subgroup, and prove their new properties.
A common practice of human learning and knowledge management is to use general rules, exception rules, and exceptions to rules. One of the crucial issues is to find a right mixture of them. For discovering this type of knowledge, we consider "rule + exception", or rule-plus-exception, strategies. Results from psychology, expert systems, genetic algorithms, and machine learning and data mining are summarized and compared, and their implications to knowledge management and discovery are examined. The study motivates and establishes a basis for the design and implementation of new algorithms for the discovery of "rule + exception" type knowledge.
The proposed Fuzzy Neural Network(FNN) model uses feedforward neural network to perform fuzzy systems with the product-sum fuzzy inference mechanism. So the number of fuzzy rules directly determines the complexity and efficiency of the FNN model. Based on the Neural Network Self-configuring Learning(NNSCL) algorithm, the modified NNSCL algorithm is obtained by solving a system of linear equations with the Conjugate Gradient Preconditioned Normal Equation (CGPCNE) algorithm the unknows of which are the adjusting factors of the remaining weights. The modified NNSCL algorithm is applied in the rule-reasoning layer to simplify the structure of the FNN model, aiming at minimizing its complexity and preserving a good level of accuracy without retraining after pruning. The simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness and the feasibility of the algorithm.
Intense geomagnetic storms (D-st <-100nT) usually occur when a large interplanetary duskward-electric field (with Ey > 5 mV m(-1)) lasts for more than 3 h. In this article, a self-organizing map (SOM) neural network is used to recognize different patterns in the temporal variation of hourly averaged Ey data and to predict intense storms. The input parameters of SOM are the hourly averaged Ey data over 3 h. The output layer of the SOM has a total of 400 neurons. The hourly Ey data are calculated from solar wind data, which are provided by NSSDC OMNIWeb and ACE spacecraft and contain information on 143 intense storms and a fair number of moderate storms, weak storms and quiet periods between September 3, 1966 and June 30, 2002. Our results show that SOM is able to classify solar wind structures and therefore to give timely intense storm alarms. In our SOM, 21 neurons out of 400 are identified to be closely associated with the intense storms and they successfully predict 134 intense storms out of the 143 ones selected. In particular, there are 14 neurons for which, if one or more of them are present, the occurrence probability of intense storms is about 90%. In addition, several of these 14 neurons can predict big magnetic storm (D-st <= - 180 nT). In summary, our method achieves high accuracy in predicting intense geomagnetic storms and could be applied in space environment prediction. (c) 2005 COSPAR. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Traffic accidents have become a more and more important factor to restrict the development of economy and affect the safety of human. Gray System quests for the inner relation through the original data, this is an approach to find out the rule of data through other data. Highway traffic accident forecasting model based on Gray System uses some original data, through theory of Gray System, processing the data and modeling GM (1,1). Through the validation of actual data, error of GM (1,1) is minor, it can be used in actual forecasting.
Metabonomics, the study of metabolites and their roles in various disease states, is a novel methodology arising from the post-genomics era. This methodology has been applied in many fields, including work in cardiovascular research and drug toxicology. In this study, metabonomics method was employed to the diagnosis of Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM2) based on serum lipid metabolites. The results suggested that serum fatty acid profiles determined by capillary gas chromatography combined with pattern recognition analysis of the data might provide an effective approach to the discrimination of Type 2 diabetic patients from healthy controls. And the applications of pattern recognition methods have improved the sensitivity and specificity greatly. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Global SLS-resolution is a well-known procedural semantics for top-down computation of queries under the well-founded model. It inherits from SLDNF-resolution the linearity property of derivations, which makes it easy and efficient to implement using a simple stack-based memory structure. However, like SLDNF-resolution it suffers from the problem of infinite loops and redundant computations. To resolve this problem, in this paper we develop a new procedural semantics, called SLTNF-resolution, by enhancing Global SLS-resolution with loop cutting and tabling mechanisms. SLTNF-resolution is sound and complete w.r.t. the well-founded semantics for logic programs with the bounded-term-size property, and is superior to existing linear tabling procedural semantics such as SLT resolution. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
With the rapid development of information technology, the Internet has evolved from a simple data-sharing media to an amazing information world where people can enjoy various services. Recently, the use of the Internet has been expanded to the field of automation, i.e., using the Internet as a tool to control equipment located at remote sites. This paper presents a system that enables multiple operators at different sites to cooperatively control multiple robots with real-time force reflecting via the Internet. To overcome instability and reliability problems caused by random time delay of the Internet communication, we adopt an event as the reference for the controller design. To improve real-time efficiency and reduce the complexity of the controller, a distributed approach is proposed for the control of remote robots, so that the time delay in one control loop does not affect performance of the others. A vision-based method is developed to monitor and render interactions between the robots. The usefulness and effectiveness of the developed method and system have been verified by teleoperation experiments on a two-robots cooperative system among Hong Kong, mainland China, and the U.S.
Ocean eddy Case-Based Reasoning (CBR) is developed and extended to the spatial-tempo domain in this paper to extract ocean eddy spatial similarity information in a quantificational manner, which can be very difficult to acquire using current routine eddy feature recognition and analysis algorithms. Present work includes three basic steps. First, information about the eddy's spatial structure and attributes is obtained from the original remote sensing data. Then a library of historical eddy cases is built using the cases' expression models. Finally, a Radius Vector Serial Analysis Model Based on Barycentre (RVSAMB) is provided to analyse the spatial similarity between the historical cases for further forecasting and dynamic analysis. In this study, a new quantitative method to analyse and extract ocean mesoscale eddy information using Case-based Reasoning is presented. Firstly, a historical ocean eddy case library was constructed based on the specific expression model. Then, the sketch of this method is discussed in detail, especially the similarity assessment method-"Radius Vector Serial Analysis Model Based on Barycentre". Finally, a mesoscale warm eddy example in the Gulf Stream of the North Atlantic indicated that this is a feasible way to analyse ocean eddies.
Behavior analysis of credit cardholders is one of the main research topics in credit card portfolio management. Usually, the cardholder's behavior, especially bankruptcy, is measured by a score of aggregate attributes that describe cardholder's spending history. In real-life practice, statistics and neural networks are the major players to calculate such a score system for prediction. Recently, various multiple linear programming-based classification methods have been promoted for analyzing credit cardholders' behaviors. As a continuation of this research direction, this paper proposes a heuristic classification method by using the fuzzy linear programming (FLP) to discover the bankruptcy patterns of credit cardholders. Instead of identifying a compromise solution for the separation of credit cardholder behaviors, this approach classifies the credit cardholder behaviors by seeking a fuzzy (satisfying) solution obtained from a fuzzy linear program.In this paper, a real-life credit database from a major US bank is used for empirical study which is compared with the results of known multiple linear programming approaches.
This paper discusses using genetic algorithms (CA) to optimize the structure of radial basis probabilistic neural networks (RBPNN), including how to select hidden centers of the first hidden layer and to determine the controlling parameter of Gaussian kernel functions. In the process of constructing the genetic algorithm, a novel encoding method is proposed for optimizing the RBPNN structure. This encoding method can not only make the selected hidden centers sufficiently reflect the key distribution characteristic in the space of training samples set and reduce the hidden centers number as few as possible, but also simultaneously determine the optimum controlling parameters of Gaussian kernel functions matching the selected hidden centers. Additionally, we also constructively propose a new fitness function so as to make the designed RBPNN as simple as possible in the network structure in the case of not losing the network performance. Finally, we take the two benchmark problems of discriminating two-spiral problem and classifying the iris data, for example, to test and evaluate this designed GA. The experimental results illustrate that our designed CA can significantly reduce the required hidden centers number, compared with the recursive orthogonal least square algorithm (ROLSA) and the modified K-means algorithm (MKA). In particular, by means of statistical experiments it was proved that the optimized RBPNN by our designed GA, have still a better generalization performance with respect to the ones by the ROLSA and the MKA, in spite of the network scale having been greatly reduced. Additionally, our experimental results also demonstrate that our designed CA is also suitable for optimizing the radial basis function neural networks (RBFNN).
Compared with other approaches for modeling and predicting, artificial neural networks are more effective in describing complex and non-linear systems. The occurrence of cyanobacterial blooms has been a continuous and serious problem over the past decades in hypereutrophic Lake Dianchi. Yet, the main factor(s) initiating these blooms remain(s) unclear. During 2001-2002 at 40 sampling sites in Lake Dianchi, physicochemical parameters possibly relating to the blooms were measured. Parameters directly or indirectly relating to the cyanobacterial blooms were used as driving factors in a back-propagation network to model the concentration of chlorophyll a. According to sensitivity analysis, chemical oxygen demand was identified as a very significant environmental factor for algal growth in Lake Dianchi.
The ideas from fuzzy neural networks and support vector machine (SVM) are incorporated to make SVM classifiers perform better. The influence of the samples with high uncertainty can be decreased by employing the fuzzy membership to weigh the margin of each training vector. The linear separability, fuzzy margin, optimal hyperplane, generalization and soft fuzzy margin algorithms are discussed. A new optimization problem is obtained and SVM is then completely reformulated into a new fuzzy support vector machine (NFSVM). Moreover, the generation bound of NFSVM can be described. We also introduce the membership function in fuzzy neural networks to do some experiments. The results demonstrate that the proposed NFSVM can produce better results than regular SVM and Fuzzy Kernel Perceptron (FKP) in some real cases.
The spatial ordering information of amino acid residue in protein primary sequence is an important determinant of protein three-dimensional structure. In this paper, we describe a radial basis function neural network (RBFNN), whose hidden centers and basis function widths are optimized by a genetic algorithm (GA), for the purpose of predicting three dimensional spatial distance location from primary sequence information. Experimental evidence on soybean protein sequences indicates the utility of this approach.
The picosecond time-correlated single photon counting spectrometer developed uses the TCSPC technique and grating splitter technique that can compensate the time spread dynamically and statically. The time spread caused by the conventional optical system can be eliminated completely. The multichannel analyzer is used to measure the fluorescence decay curves and the time-resolved spectrum by opening the time windows. The method for multi-exponential fitting to the fluorescence decay is also used to deal with the data. The system theory and design of the spectrometer are presented in detail, and the process of operation is introduced with the integration of the system. Many standard samples have been measured, and the data have been analyzed and contrasted. Experimental results show that the fluorescence life-span scaled by the spectrometer reaches picosecond distinction, and the spectrometer's sensitivity is single photon counting. Time resolution of the spectrometer is 8.8 ps.
A Weierstrass elliptic function expansion method and its algorithm are developed in this paper. The method changes the problem solving nonlinear evolution equations into anotherone solving the corresponding system of nonlinear algebraic equations. With the aid of symbolic computation (e.g. Maple), the method is applied to the combined KdV-mKdV equation and (2+1)-dimensional coupled Davey-Stewartson equation. As a consequence, many new types of doubly periodic solutions are obtained in terms of the Weierstrass elliptic function. Jacobi elliptic function solutions and solitary wave solutions are also given as simple limits of doubly periodic solutions.
The TOD (triangle orientation discrimination threshold) metric, as a promising sensor performance measure, is suitable for all types of thermal imaging systems and corresponds to the field performance very well. Since this method was proposed, a great progress has been made in some aspects, such as experimental validation, field performance, and TOD sensor performance model. However, what is still missing is a TOD curve prediction model similar to MRTD (minimum resolvable temperature difference) equation. Here, an equation-based TOD performance model was first developed focusing on staring thermal imagers. Specifically, spatial distribution of the triangle standard test pattern is described quantitatively. Resolution transfer characteristic of the staring infrared imagers is modeled with linear system theory, and system noise is characterized with the introduction of three-dimensional noise model. The modulation effect of overall subsystem of staring thermal imager on the non-periodic triangle standard pattern is analyzed. The matched filter idea is adopted to characterize quantitatively the spatial integration of the eye to signal and various noise components over the triangle pattern area, and the perceived signal-to-noise ratio of the staring thermal imager is derived. Then, the TOD performance theoretical model is established. Comparing with experimental results, this theoretical model gives reasonable prediction of the TOD performance curve of staring thermal imagers. Although more tests and modifications are required, these preliminary results suggest that this model can be developed into a model that predicts the TOD for all kinds of sensors.
It is argued that some symmetric structure in logic programs could be taken into account when implementing semantics in logic programming. This may enhance the declarative ability or expressive power of the semantics. The work presented here may be seen as representative examples along this line. The focus is on the derivation of negative information and some other classic semantic issues. We first define a permutation group associated with a given logic program. Since usually the canonical models used to reflect the common sense or intended meaning are minimal or completed models of the program, we expose the relationships between minimal models and completed models of the original program and its so-called G-reduced form newly-derived via the permutation group defined. By means of this G-reduced form, we introduce a rule to assume negative information termed G-CWA, which is actually a generalization of the GCWA. We also develop the notions of G-definite, G-hierarchical and G-stratified logic programs, which are more general than definite, hierarchical and stratified programs, and extend some well-known declarative and procedural semantics to them, respectively.
This study utilized fast event-related fMRI with reversible words to examine the role of left inferior prefrontal cortex (PFC) in semantic processing of Chinese. As a special linguistic phenomenon in Chinese, a reversible word is a two-character word (AB) that, when read from right to left (BA), opposite to the normal left to right reading direction, is also a real word. The two words, AB and BA, can have very different meanings. Fourteen native Chinese saw a reversible word (BA) and were asked to read it backward silently to obtain the meaning of AB, defined as the target meaning. They then saw two test words and decided which of the two was semantically related to the target meaning. Activity in a subregion of BA47 was found to be modulated by the extent to which irrelevant semantic activation of the distractor word BA interfered with semantic retrieval of the target word AB. This finding demonstrated the involvement of the left inferior PFC in the control processes of semantic retrieval in Chinese. In addition, comparing conditions using reversible with that using nonreversible words, we found evidence suggesting a semantic/phonological functional subdivision in left inferior PFC, consistent with that in English. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Based on an 87-fb(-1) data set collected by the BABAR detector at the PEP-II asymmetric-energy B Factory, a search for D-0-(D) over bar (0) mixing has been made using the semileptonic decay modes D*+-->pi(+)D(0), D-0-->K((*))enu (+c.c.). The use of these modes allows unambiguous flavor tagging and a combined fit of the D-0 decay time and D*+-D-0 mass difference (DeltaM) distributions. The high-statistics sample of unmixed semileptonic D-0 decays is used to model the DeltaM distribution and time dependence of mixed events directly from the data. Neural networks are used to select events and reconstruct the D-0. A result consistent with no charm mixing has been obtained, R-mix=0.0023+/-0.0012+/-0.0004. This corresponds to an upper limit of R-mix<0.0042 (90% C.L.).
The analysis on the workspace and rotational capability of HANA, a spatial 3-DoF parallel manipulator, is concerned. The parallel manipulator consists of a base plate, a movable platform, and three connecting legs. The moving platform has three degrees of freedom (DoFs) which are two translations and one rotation, with respect to the base plate. The new parallel manipulator is very interesting for the reason of no singularity in the workspace, the single-DoF joint architecture and high rotational capability of the moving platform. The inverse kinematics problem is described in a closed-form, which is very useful to present the workspace geometrically. The constant-orientation and reachable workspaces for the manipulator are analyzed firstly. The index that is used to evaluate the rotational capability of the manipulator is defined and discussed in detail. Finally, the distribution of rotational capability index on the workspace is presented, which helps us know how much the index is at different point. The parallel manipulator has wide application in the fields of industrial robots, simulators, micro-motion manipulators, and parallel kinematics machines.
Software architectures should always reflect the architectural changes occurring in software systems. In this paper, dynamic software architectures are studied from a new perspective. Software architectures are considered as goals or objectives that software systems are pursuing instead of constraints over systems. The architectural goals are decomposed into two categories of sub-goals, i.e., structural goals and interaction behavioral goals. For defining the architectural goals of software systems, the notation of architectural reference model is introduced. The architectural reference model is composed of components and connectors involved in software architectures and constraints over software architectures. For reasoning about the result of changes rigorously and automatically, software architectures and changes to software architectures are described in a uniform formalism and the results of changes can directly be derived from the compositions of software architectures and changes. For implementing the adaptations of software systems, an autonomous agent-based approach is adopted, in which autonomous agents are used to plan the achievement of architectural goals and cascade reactions caused by changes via using architectural style-specific knowledge and behavior rules defined for agents. (C) 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) system was used to determine the antioxidants tert-butyl-hydroquinone (TBHQ), tertbutylhydroxyanisole (BHA), and 3,5-di-tert-butylhydroxytoluene (BHT) simultaneously in oils. The paper presents a new methodology for the optimized separation of antioxidants in oils based on the coupling of experimental design and artificial neural networks. The orthogonal design and the artificial neural networks with extended delta-bar-delta (EDBD) learning algorithm were employed to design the experiments and optimize the variables. The response function (Rf) used was a weighted linear combination of two variables related to separation efficiency and retention time, according to which the optimized conditions were obtained. The above-mentioned antioxidants in rapeseed oils were separated and determined simultaneously under optimized conditions by HPLC with UV detection at 280 nm. Linearity was obtained over the range of 10-200 mug/mL with recoveries of 98.3% (TBHQ), 98.1% (BHT), and 96.2% (BHA).
This paper study generalized Serre problem proposed by Lin and Bose in multidimensional system theory context [Multidimens. Systems and Signal Process. 10 (1999) 379; Linear Algebra Appl. 338 (2001) 125]. This problem is stated as follows. Let F is an element of A(lxm) be a full row rank matrix, and d be the greatest common divisor of all the l x l minors of F. Assume that the reduced minors of F generate the unit ideal, where A = K[xl,...,x(n)] is the polynomial ring in n variables x(l),..., X-n over any coefficient field K. Then there exist matrices G is an element of A(lxl) and F-l is an element of A(lxm) such that F = GF(l) with del G = d and F-l is a ZLP matrix. We provide an elementary proof to this problem, and treat non-full rank case. (C) 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Artificial coordinating fields (ACF) are proposed to deal with the motion planning problems of mobile robots in uncertain dynamic environments. An ACF around an obstacle can generate two orthogonal force vectors to a robot: one is called the coordinating force vector which is purposively designed in this paper, and the other is the repulsive force vector which is the same as that in a conventional artificial potential field. The ACF is designed according to the updated motion purpose and the relative states of the robot with respect to its local environment, and it also satisfies the robot's dynamic constraints. The direction of the coordinating force can be determined on line according to an optimal evaluation function. The ACF can effectively remove the local minima, and reduce the oscillation of the planned trajectory between multiple obstacles. Only local knowledge of the environments is needed in the ACF-based motion planning. The properties of the ACF such as controllability, adaptability, safety and reachability are studied and discussed in detail in this paper. Theoretical analysis and simulations are given to illustrate our main results.
Background: Microarray experiments are becoming a powerful tool for clinical diagnosis, as they have the potential to discover gene expression patterns that are characteristic for a particular disease. To date, this problem has received most attention in the context of cancer research, especially in tumor classification. Various feature selection methods and classifier design strategies also have been generally used and compared. However, most published articles on tumor classification have applied a certain technique to a certain dataset, and recently several researchers compared these techniques based on several public datasets. But, it has been verified that differently selected features reflect different aspects of the dataset and some selected features can obtain better solutions on some certain problems. At the same time, faced with a large amount of microarray data with little knowledge, it is difficult to find the intrinsic characteristics using traditional methods. In this paper, we attempt to introduce a combinational feature selection method in conjunction with ensemble neural networks to generally improve the accuracy and robustness of sample classification.
The final states created by e(+)e(-) annihilation at tau-charm energy region are simulated with PYTHIA5.7, and the resultant inclusive muon production cross sections and momentum distributions are obtained. The muon identifier of BES M detector is fully simulated with Geant3.21. For the simulated events containing muons and pions with momentum greater than 0.5GeV/c, the BP neural network and Fisher discriminant method are used for muon/pion identification. BP neural network performs better than Fisher discriminant method. With the same muon efficiency of 96%, the misidentification of pion by BP neural network is 9.4%, in comparison with that of 17.1% by Fisher method.
Forage selection plays a prominent role in the process of returning cultivated lands back into grasslands. The conventional method of selecting forage species can only provide attempts for problem-solving without considering the relationships among the decision factors globally. Therefore, this study is dedicated to developing a decision support system to help farmers correctly select suitable forage species for the target sites. After collecting data through a field study, we developed this decision support system. It consists of three steps: (1) the analytic hierarchy process (AHP), (2) weights determination, and (3) decision making. In the first step, six factors influencing forage growth were selected by reviewing the related references and by interviewing experts. Then a fuzzy matrix was devised to determine the weight of each factor in the second step. Finally, a gradual alternative decision support system was created to help farmers choose suitable forage species for their lands in the third step. The results showed that the AHP and fuzzy logic are useful for forage selection decision making, and the proposed system can provide accurate results in a certain area (Gansu Province) of China.
A novel face recognition method based on multi-features using a neural networks committee (NNC) machine is proposed in this paper. The committee consists of several independent neural networks trained by different image blocks of the original images in different feature domains. The final classification results represent a combined response of the individual networks. Then, we use the designed neural networks committee to perform human face data recognition. The experimental results show that the classification accuracy of our proposed NNC is much higher than that of single feature domain. (C) 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Data mining is an important and challenging problem for the efficient analysis of large astronomical databases and will become even more important with the development of the Global Virtual Observatory. In this study, learning vector quantization (LVQ), single-layer perceptron (SLP) and support vector machines (SVM) were used for multi-wavelength data classification. A feature selection technique was used to evaluate the significance of the considered features for the results of classification. We conclude that in the situation of fewer features, LVQ and SLP show better performance. In contrast, SVM shows better performance when considering more features. The focus of the automatic classification is on the development of an efficient feature-based classifier. The classifiers trained by these methods can be used to preselect AGN candidates.
Insight problem solving has been the topic of much investigation. It is believed widely that insight critically contains the process of breaking one's mental set. Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) research on puzzle solving showed that insight was associated with activities in anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and other areas (Luo and Niki [2003]: Hippocampus 13:274-281). We proposed ACC might mediate processes of breaking one's mental set, given its well-known role in cognitive conflict. In the present research, high-density event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded to examine the electrophysiologic correlates of insight problem solving. One hundred twenty interesting Chinese riddles (half difficult and half easy) were adopted as materials. For each trial, subjects were either given an easy puzzle followed by a keyword that was consistent with the subject's initial thinking ("No-aha answer"), or a difficult puzzle followed by a keyword that was consistent with an unusual interpretation, so that it broke the subject's initial mental set ("Aha answer"). Results from 14 subjects showed that Aha answers elicited a more negative ERP deflection than did No-aha answers in the time window from 250-500 msec after onset of the answer. The ERP difference wave (Aha minus No-aha answer) showed the maximum amplitude over the central site (Cz) with a peak latency of 380 msec (N380). Voltage and current density maps of the difference wave showed strong activity and current density in the frontocentral region. Dipole analysis localized the generator of the N380 in the ACC. N380 therefore probably reflects an "Aha!" effect, and the ACC generator may be involved in the breaking of mental set. (C) 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
This paper discusses the concept, formulation, and implementation of the agent-based control for fuzzy behavior programming in robotic excavation. Petri net transducers are introduced to describe excavation control agent coordination and specification, while fuzzy control rules are used to implement primitive motions. A prototype laboratory excavation system is built with PUMA robotic manipulators and a force/torque sensor. Extensive experiments have been conducted and the results have demonstrated that the proposed control method is capable of continuously adapting and replanning its actions based on sensory feedback, and completing its excavation tasks in dynamic and unstructured environments.
This letter proposes a novel neural root finder based on the root moment method (RMM) to find the arbitrary roots (including complex ones) of arbitrary polynomials. This neural root finder (NRF) was designed based on feedforward neural networks (FNN) and trained with a constrained learning algorithm (CLA). Specifically, we have incorporated the a priori information about the root moments of polynomials into the conventional backpropagation algorithm (BPA), to construct a new CLA. The resulting NRF is shown to be able to rapidly estimate the distributions of roots of polynomials. We study and compare the advantage of the RMM-based NRF over the previous root coefficient method-based NRF and the traditional Muller and Laguerre methods as well as the mathematica roots function, and the behaviors, the accuracies of the resulting root finders, and their training speeds of two specific structures corresponding to this FNN root finder: the log Sigma and the Sigma - Pi FNN. We also analyze the effects of the three controlling parameters {deltaP(0), theta(p), eta} with the CLA on the two NRFs theoretically and experimentally. Finally, we present computer simulation results to support our claims.
I propose a joint inversion scheme to integrate seismic data, well data, and geological knowledge for acoustic impedance estimation. I examine the problem of recovering acoustic impedance from band-limited seismic data. Optimal estimation of impedance can be achieved by combined applications of model-based and deconvolution-based methods. I incorporate the Robinson seismic convolutional model (RSCM) into the Caianiello neural network for network mapping. The Caianiello neural network provides an efficient approach to decompose the seismic wavelet and its inverse. The joint inversion consists of four steps: (1) multistage seismic inverse wavelets (MSIW) extraction at the wells, (2) the deconvolution with MSIW for initial impedance estimation, (3) multistage seismic wavelets (MSW) extraction at the wells, and (4) the model-based reconstruction of impedance with MSW for improving the initial impedance model. The Caianiello neural network offers two algorithms for the four-step process: neural wavelet estimation and input signal reconstruction. The frequency-domain implementation of the algorithms enables control of the inversion on different frequency scales and facilitates an understanding of reservoir behavior on different resolution scales. The test results show that, with well control, the joint inversion can significantly improve the spatial description of reservoirs in data sets involving complex continental deposits.
This paper proposes a kind of estimation method of wrist force/torque for robots. The method adopts the data fusion technique according to the output variations of the finger force sensors installed in the gripper. The finger force sensors are used to measure the clamping force of the gripper in the design. When the accuracy of measurement is not required exactly and there is the limitation of weight and volume in space robots, we utilize the existing devices to estimate the wrist force/torque without the wrist force/torque sensor, which not only meets the practical requirement but also decreases the weight and cost of robots. An experimental bench is developed and the calibration experiments are conducted to detect the relationship between the wrist force/torque and finger forces. The experimental data are used to train a radial basis function (RBF) artificial neural network, and the construction and parameters of the network are obtained. The results of data fusion of the wrist force/torque are consistent with the practical calibration values, and the effectiveness of the wrist force/torque estimating technique is proved. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
For the prediction of pK(a) of pyridine derivatives, the combinations of the parameters by using the method of tree structured fingerprint and the quantum-chemical parameters was performed. The results of the cross-correlation among the selected ten parameters showed that they possessed low correlations. And the results of the cross-validation method indicated that the multiple linear regression model was. very steady. Furthermore, the PKa values were estimated by using artificial neural networks.
This work is to discuss the identification problem of distributed parameter systems given by Hopfield-type neural network equations using classical optimal control theory. More rationally, we consider diffusion term in our model different from other models, in which the parameters appearing in diffusion term, linear term and nonlinear term. We prove the existence of optimal parameters and state the necessary conditions on optimizing parameters for the output error criterion give by quadratic cost. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we apply OPCL control to discrete system, and based on relative nonlinear measure, give an algorithm for estimating the radius of stable basin. We rigorously prove that this basin is bound to be of existence for nonlinear discrete system, whose goal dynamics is either periodic orbits or fixed point. We also, in particular, investigate the stable basin in a quadratic polynomial map system, and present that the stable basin is irrelevant to the goal orbits with a negative Jacobian gain matrix. Furthermore, we take the well-known Henon system and Ikeda system as examples to illustrate the implementation of our theory, and give the corresponding simulations to reinforce our method.
Understorey vegetation is a critical component of biodiversity and an essential habitat component for many wildlife species. However, compared to overstorey, information about understorey vegetation distribution is scant, available mainly over small areas or through imprecise large area maps from tedious and time-consuming field surveys. A practical approach to classifying understorey vegetation from remote sensing data is needed for more accurate habitat analyses and biodiversity estimates. As a case study, we mapped the spatial distribution of understorey bamboo in Wolong Nature Reserve (southwestern China) using remote sensing data from a leaf-on or growing season. Training on a limited set of ground data and using widely available Landsat TM data as input, a nonlinear artificial neural network achieved a classification accuracy of 80% despite the presence of co-occurring mid-storey and understorey vegetation. These results suggest that the influences of understorey vegetation on remote sensing data are available to practical approaches to classifying understorey vegetation. The success here to map bamboo distribution has important implications for giant panda conservation and provides a good foundation for developing methods to map the spatial distributions of other understorey plant species.
We discuss the projection temporal logic (PTL), based on a primitive projection operator, prj. A framing technique is also presented, using which a synchronization operator, await, is defined within the underlying logic. A framed temporal logic programming language (FTLL) is presented. To illustrate how to use both the language and framing technique, some examples are given.
There are recent interests with CsI(T1) scintillating crystals for Dark Matter experiments. The key merit is the capability to differentiate nuclear recoil (nr) signatures from the background beta/gamma-events due to ambient radioactivity on the basis of their different pulse shapes. One of the major experimental challenges is to perform such pulse shape analysis in the statistics-limited domain where the light output is close to the detection threshold. Using data derived from measurements with low-energy gamma's and nuclear recoils due to neutron elastic scatterings, it was verified that the pulse shapes between beta/gamma-events are different. Several methods of pulse shape discrimination (PSD) are studied, and their relative merits are compared. Full digitization of the pulse shapes is crucial to achieve good discrimination. Advanced software techniques with mean time, neural network and likelihood ratios give rise to satisfactory performance, and are superior to the conventional Double Charge method commonly applied at higher energies. PSD becomes effective starting at a light yield of about 20 photo-electrons. This corresponds to a detection threshold of about 5 keV electron-equivalence energy, or 40-50 keV recoil kinetic energy, in realistic experiments. (C) 2003 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Some problems in traditional soil mapping-high cost, high subjectivity, poor documentation, and low accuracy and precision-have motivated the development of a knowledge-based fuzzy soil mapping system, named SoLIM (Soil Land Inference Model). The rule-based method of the current SoLIM has its limitations. It requires explicit knowledge of the details of soil-environment relationships and it assumes that the environmental variables are independent from each other. This paper presents a case-based reasoning (CBR) approach as an alternative to the rule-based method. Case-based reasoning uses knowledge in the form of specific cases to solve a new problem, and the solution is based on the similarities between the new problem and the available cases. With the CBR method, soil scientists express their knowledge by providing locations (cases) indicating the association between a soil and a landscape or environmental configuration. In this way, the soil scientists avoid the difficulties associated with depicting the details of a soil-environment relationship and assuming the independence of environmental variables. The CBR inference engine computes the similarity between the environmental configuration at a given location and that associated with each case representing a soil type, and then uses these similarity values to approximate the similarity of the local soil at the given location to the given soil type. A case study in southwestern Wisconsin demonstrates that CBR can be an easy and effective way for soil scientists to express their knowledge. For the study area, the result from the CBR inference engine is more accurate than that from the traditional soil mapping process. Case-based reasoning can be a good solution for a knowledge-based fuzzy soil mapping system.
In this paper, the periphery of projection of a molecule is described based on three-dimensional projection, and the new invariable was used for quantitative structure-activity relationship studies. Much better results were obtained, if Am indexes, indicated index and quantum-chemical parameters were combined with the new index. If on the new parameter, periphery of projection of a molecule, the correlation coefficient is 0.939; whereas the correlation coefficient is 0.954 because the addition of the new index. Artificial neural networks were performed to predict the toxicity of nitrobenzenes, and the satisfactory result, the correlation coefficient of 0.986, were achieved.
Currently, the world is in the times that knowledge economy is growing up rapidly. The gathering, sharing, using and spreading of information have become key factors of influencing competition capability of one enterprise; at the same time, information technologies that support distributed computing and information sharing appear one after the other. Therefore, distributed computing will become an inevitable trend of development of enterprise informatization. As one part of the construction industry, the housing industry is emerging as a new application frontier for information technologies. According to the applications of information technologies in the housing industry, this paper puts forth a Problem Solving Environment for electronic commerce and collaborative work, electronic-PSE (e-PSE), which is an Intranet/Internet platform for solving many problems existing in the housing industry, such as building of virtual organization, system integration, development of new Internet/Intranet application and so on. The information infrastructure framework of e-PSE is presented, which includes two modules: XML-based electronic commerce platform (XECP), XML-based collaborative work platform (XCWP). XECP provides solutions for integration of construction system and electronic commerce system; XCWP provides solutions for building of virtual organization and implementation of collaborative work of partners. At last, conclusions and prospects are presented.
The concept of a complex large system of mineral resource exploitation was advanced from the system theory viewpoint. On the basis of the integrated techniques of qualitative and quantitative analysis, the multiple objective intelligence-integrated methodology for decision-making on mineral resource exploitation was investigated and its integrated model was also formulated. The mineral deposit model, expert system model for mining method selection and the artificial neural network model for prediction economic index, as well as the programming model, acted as the core of this system, while the multiple goal programming model served as the top of the model. An intelligent system to assist the programming of decision-making on mineral resource exploitation for operating mines was developed by means of the systematic combination of optimization technology with an artificial neural network, an expert system, computer-aided design and operations research (OR). The structure of an integrated intelligent system for decision-making on mineral resource exploitation was described. In addition, forecast and simulation, as well as optimization, were integrated. The system's preliminary application was illustrated with an example. (C) 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
The genetic algorithm was used to optimize the full structure radial basis probabilistic neural networks(RBPNN), including selecting the hidden centers vectors of the first hidden layer and determining the matching controlling parameters of kernel function of RBPNN. The proposed genetic encoding method not only completely embodies the space distribution characterizes of pattern samples, but also simultaneously achieves the optimum number of the selected hidden centers vectors and the matching controlling parameters of the kernel function. The novelly constructed fitting function can efficiently control the error accuracy of the RBPNN output. The experimental results show that the algorithm effectivelfies simpliy the structure of PBPNN.
This paper proposes a novel recursive partitioning method based on constrained learning neural networks to find an arbitrary number (less than the order of the polynomial) of (real or complex) roots of arbitrary polynomials. Moreover, this paper also gives a BP network constrained learning algorithm (CLA) used in root-finders based on the constrained relations between the roots and the coefficients of polynomials. At the same time, an adaptive selection method for the parameter deltaP with the CLA is also given. The experimental results demonstrate that this method can more rapidly and effectively obtain the roots of arbitrary high order polynomials with higher precision than traditional root-finding approaches.
On the basis of DBF nets proposed by Wang Shoujue, the model and properties of DBF neural network were discussed in this paper. When applied in pattern recognition, the algorithm and implement on hardware were presented respectively. We did experiments on recognition of omnidirectionally oriented rigid objects on the same level, using direction basis function neural networks, which acts by the method of covering the high dimensional geometrical distribution of the sample set in the feature space. Many animal and vehicle models (even with rather similar shapes) were recognized omnidirectionally thousands of times. For total 8800 tests, the correct recognition rate is 98.75%, the error rate and the rejection rate are 0.5% and 1.25% respectively. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Background: Tumor markers are routinely measured in clinical oncology. However, their value in cancer detection has been controversial largely because no single tumor marker is sensitive and specific enough to meet strict diagnostic criteria. One strategy to overcome the shortcomings of single tumor markers is to measure a combination of tumor markers to increase sensitivity and look for distinct patterns to increase specificity. This study aimed to develop a system for parallel detection of tumor markers as a tool for tumor detection in both cancer patients and asymptomatic populations at high risk. Materials and Methods: A protein chip was fabricated with twelve monoclonal antibodies against the following tumor markers respective : CA 125, CA 153, CA19-9, CA242, CEA, AFP, PSA, free-PSA, HGH, beta-HCG, NSE and ferritin. Tumor markers were captured after the protein chip was incubated with serum samples. A secondary antibody conjugated with HRP was used to detect the captured tumor markers using chemiluminescence technique. Quantification of the tumor markers was obtained after calibration with standard curves. Results: The chip system showed an overall sensitivity of 68.18% after testing 1147 cancer patients, with high sensitivities for liver, pancreas and ovarian tumors and low sensitivities for gastrointestinal tumors, and a specificity of 97.1% after testing 793 healthy individuals. Application of the chip system in physical checkups of. 15,867 individuals resulted in 16 cases that were subsequently confirmed as having cancers. Analysis of the detection results with a Support Vector. Machine algorithm considerably increased the specificity of the system as reflected in healthy individuals and hepatitis/cirrhosis patients, but only modestly decreased the sensitivity for cancer patients. Conclusion: This protein chip system is a potential tool for assisting cancer diagnosis and for screening cancer in high-risk populations.
This paper proposes a constructive approach for finding arbitrary (real or complex) roots of arbitrary (real or complex) Polynomials by multilayer perceptron network (MLPN) using constrained learning algorithm (CLA), which encodes the a priori information of constraint relations between root moments and coefficients of a polynomial into the usual BP algorithm (BPA). Moreover, the root moment method (RMM) is also simplified into a recursive version so that the computational complexity can be further decreased, which leads the roots of those higher order polynomials to be readily found. In addition, an adaptive learning parameter with the CLA is also proposed in this paper; an initial weight selection method is also given. Finally, several experimental results show that our proposed neural connectionism approaches, with respect to the nonneural ones, are more efficient and feasible in finding the arbitrary roots of arbitrary polynomials.
Forecasting exchange rates is an important financial problem that is receiving increasing attention especially because of its difficulty and practical applications. Artificial neural networks (ANNs) have been widely used as a promising alternative approach for a forecasting task because of several distinguished features. Research efforts on ANNs for forecasting exchange rates are considerable. In this paper, we attempt to provide a survey of research in this area. Several design factors significantly impact the accuracy of neural network forecasts. These factors include the selection of input variables, preparing data, and network architecture. There is no consensus about the factors. In different cases, various decisions have their own effectiveness. We also describe the integration of ANNs with other methods and report the comparison between performances of ANNs and those of other forecasting methods, and finding mixed results. Finally, the future research directions in this area are discussed.
Semi-active vehicle suspension with magnetorheological dampers is a promising technology for improving the ride comfort of a ground vehicle. However, the magnetorheological damper always exhibits nonlinear hysteresis between its output force and relative velocity, and additional nonlinear stiffness owing to the state transition from liquid to semi-solid or solid, so that the semi-active suspension with magnetorheological dampers features nonlinearity by nature. To control such nonlinear dynamic systems subject to random road roughness, in this paper we present a neural network control, which includes an error back propagation algorithm with quadratic momentum of the multilayer forward neural networks. Both the low frequency of road-induced vibration of the vehicle body and the fast response of the magnetorheological damper enable the neural network control to work effectively on-line. The numerical simulations and an experiment for a quarter-car model indicate that the semi-active suspension with a magnetorheological damper and neural network control is superior to the passive suspensions in a range of low frequency.
An important concept proposed in the early stage of robot path planning field is the shrinking of the robot to a point and meanwhile expanding of the obstacles in the workspace as a set of new obstacles. The resulting grown obstacles are called the Configuration Space (Cspace) obstacles. The find-path problem is then transformed into that of finding a collision free path for a point robot among the Cspace obstacles. However. the research experiences obtained so far have shown that the calculation of the Cspace obstacles is very hard work when the following Situations occur: 1. both the robot and obstacles are not polygons and 2. the robot is allowed to rotate. This situation is even worse when the robot and obstacles are three dimensional (3D) objects with various shapes. Obviously a direct path planning approach without the calculation of the Cspace obstacles is strongly needed. This paper presents Such a new real-time robot path planning approach which. to the best Of our knowledge, is the first one in the robotic community. The fundamental ideas are the utilization of inequality and optimization technique. Simulation results have been presented to show its merits.
As a continuous effort to develop automated methods for predicting membrane protein types that was initiated by Chou and Elrod (PROTEINS: Structure, Function, and Genetics, 1999, 34, 137-153), the support vector machine (SVM) is introduced. Results obtained through re-substitution, jackknife, and independent data set tests, respectively, have indicated that the SVM approach is quite a promising one, suggesting that the covariant discriminant algorithm (Chou and Elrod, Protein Eng. 12 (1999) 107) and SVM if effectively complemented with each other, will become a powerful tool for predicting membrane protein types and the other protein attributes as well. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Correlated pre- and postsynaptic activity that induces long-term potentiation is known to induce a persistent enhancement of the intrinsic excitability of the presynaptic neuron. Here we report that, associated with the induction of long-term depression in hippocampal cultures and in somatosensory cortical slices, there is also a persistent reduction in the excitability of the presynaptic neuron. This reduction requires postsynaptic Ca2+ elevation and presynaptic PKA- and PKC-dependent modification of slow-inactivating K+ channels. The bidirectional changes in neuronal excitability and synaptic efficacy exhibit identical requirements for the temporal order of pre- and postsynaptic activation but reflect two distinct aspects of activity-induced modification of neural circuits.
This paper presents a comparison of three kinds of principal component neural networks which are used for image compression. Principal component analysis (PCA), which is a statistical processing technique, is used in many engineering and scientific fields. Application of computing principal components includes data compression, pattern recognition and signal processing, etc. In this paper we use it for image compression.
This paper focuses on motion planning in dynamic environments that exists dynamic obstacle and moving goal. It is based on the relative coordinates and acceleration space coordinates and it includes two behaviors: obstacle avoidance and moving to the goal. The behavior of avoidance is reactive, and the behavior of moving to the goal is considered as a reverse problem of the avoidance. The switch between two behaviors is based on the acceleration space coordinates. The experiment results verify its validity.
In this paper we first present the mechanism system configuration, basic control structure of a humanoid robot constructed by our laboratory The human-sized robot has an all-orientation wheel mobile vehicle with 3-DOF, two 7-DOF arms, one 2-DOF neck and one 2DOF waist (totally 21 DOF). As follow, we build the humanoid's dynamic model based on the Newton-Euler method. Using the model, we simulate and analyse the dynamic characters of the humanoid. The simulation results are presented and the results will be the significant basic for the stability analysis and control of the humanoid in the future works. The humanoid is expected to be a common tested in experimental and discussion for various aspects of intelligent humanoid robotics.
Dispatching rules are usually applied dynamically to schedule the job in the dynamic job-shop. Existing scheduling approach seldom address the machine selection in the scheduling process. Following the principles of traditional dispatching rules, composite rules, considering both the machine selection and job selection, were proposed in this paper. Reinforcement learning (RL) is an on-line actor critic method. The dynamic system is trained to enhance its learning and adaptive capability by a RL algorithm. We define the conception of pressure for describing the system feature and determining the state sequence of search space. Designing a reward function should be guided based on the scheduling goal. We present the conception of jobs' estimated mean lateness (EMLT) that is used to determine the amount of reward or penalty. The scheduling system is trained by Q-learning algorithm through the learning stage and then it successively schedules the operations. Competitive results with the RL-agent approach suggest that it can be used as real-time optimal scheduling technology.
A new model for Four Wheel Driving (4WD) vehicles and a fuzzy control system that enhances vehicle yaw stability especially in fast evasive maneuvers performed to the safety limit are developed. The driver handles the front steering angle over a turn, while the controller commands the braking forces of individual wheels and rear steering effort. This mitigates the vehicle's oversteer or understeer tendencies during emergent cornering situation. The fuzzy controller is firstly established by qualitative analysis of the dynamics of the vehicle and tires. The available control authority and effect are then evaluated by implementing the controller on the 4WD vehicle model developed before using computer simulation. The simulation results demonstrate the benefit of the proposed control method in terms of improved vehicle response. Specifically, the method is practical for it's simpleness and robustness.
Rail defects and damages often cause train accidents. In this paper an onboard measurement system for measuring the railrobot's excursions from the rails' midlines and the rail-robot's heights above the rails is presented. In this system, two groups of proximity transducers are placed above the two parallel rail tracks. This measurement system is an important part of a comprehensive on-line rail damages detection, measurement and reparation system which is called the rail-robot. To deal with the nonlinearity of the measurement models, the coupling between the outputs, and the noise contamination, a neural network method is proposed for building high precision measurement models. Moreover different measurement models for different types of rail tracks are also built based on the proposed neural network module. Experimental results show that this neural network based measurement system has high precision and is suitable for on-line rail damage detection and measurement applications.
With high adaptability to environments snake-like robots offer a variety of advantages over other mobile robots. Such a robot with passive wheels has quite different mechanism in locomotion from that of other locomotion systems. We have developed a snake-like robot for rescue applications. The unit composing the snake-like robot of Shenyang Institute of Automation (SIA) is a module including actuating system and control system. To let the snake-like robot perform turning motion and compensate offset and orientation errors of the robot, we propose an amplitude modulation method and a phase modulation method based on analysis of the serpenoid curve. The side motion of the snake-like robot can also be generated by the amplitude modulation. The tracking control method is also proposed based on sensor information. Computer simulations and experimental tests are performed to show the validity of the proposed methods.
In this paper, some sufficient conditions are obtained to guarantee that the n-dimensional cellular neural networks can have even (less than or equal to 2(n)) memory patterns. And we have obtained the estimates of attracting domain of such stable memory patterns. Those conditions directly derived from the parameters of the neural networks, are very easy to verified. A new design algorithm for cellular neural networks is developed based on stability theory (not base on the well-known perceptron training algorithm), and the convergence of the design algorithm is guaranteed by some stability Theorems. The results presented in this paper are new. Finally, the validity and performance of the results are illustrated by simulation results.
In this paper(1) we propose a new representation of DNA sequences, which constructs the word frequency vector with multiple resolutions based on the chaos game representation. Compared with the traditional vector, it combines a range of resolutions and reserves higher resolutions but the dimension is reduced greatly relatively. The algorithm is detailed, which calculates coding format and codes each sequence. To evaluate the significance of our method, we represent Alu sequences by our proposed coding format. After that the acquired vectors are used to train BP neural networks to recognize the Alu sequences. The experimental results show that this representation of DNA sequences is significant and efficient in biological data processing.
When performing classification of large set of samples, Neural Tree Classifiers (NTs) are preferredly used. However, the classical NTs have poor generalization properties. So, in this paper we propose a new classification method referred to as clustering-neural tree classifier, combining clustering technique with neural networks. It can be well applied to classifications of large set of samples, while having good generalization properties. The experimental results on the two spirals problem and the iris problem show that our proposed NN-tree classifier is effective and efficient.
The spatial distance of amino acids in a protein sequence is one of important factors, which determine the three-dimension structure (tertiary structure). In this paper(1), we describe a Genetic Algorithm (GA) based Radial Basis Function Neural Networks (RBFNN), whose hidden centers and radial basis function widths is optimized by the GA, to learn how primary structure (residue sequence) affects the spatial proximity of the amino acids in the soybean protein sequences and predict the residues spatial distance in three-dimensional space. Experiment results indicate that the proposed network has a good performance in soybean protein sequences residue spatial distance prediction.
This paper introduces a novel application. of human-machine Co-Intelligent Systems with the virtual reality (VR) technology. In this paper, an underwater robot system with the synergy between VR and supervisory control is proposed. In the system, the human-computer interface that has better interaction is built by VR, and the virtual supervisory operation is achieved through combining with intelligent robotic. The result of virtual supervisory operation is acted as the whole object to project to the reality world and to complete the task. The proposed system both are a training platform for human operator to give a reality Tele-present sense and a test-bed for simulating the local status of robot, and is a multi functions platform of intelligent robot to achieve reality operation too. In the paper, a work checking the welding of sea oil conduits is employed to illuminate the functions of the proposed underwater robot system.
We report some of our recent progress on using Clifford bracket algebra to simplify automated geometric theorem-proving via the homogeneous model, and on systematic expansions of Clifford expressions with the purpose of finding the shortest expansions. With such simplification and expansion techniques, we are able to finish some pure geometric computation tasks that are too difficult for other algebraic methods to finish even with the aid of a good PC, and we get better results through a readable procedure.
This paper presents a preliminary study on the nonlinear approximation capability of feedforward neural networks (FNNs) via a geometric approach. Three simplest FNNs with at most four free parameters are defined and investigated. By approximations on one-dimensional functions, we observe that the Chebyshev-polynomials, Gaussian, and sigmoidal FNNs are ranked in order of providing more varieties of non-linearities. If neglecting the compactness feature inherited by Gaussian neural networks, we consider that the Chebyshev-polynomial-based neural networks will be the best among three types of FNNs in an efficient use of free parameters.
Discrete-time cellular neural networks (DTCNNs) are formulated and studied in this paper. Several sufficient conditions are obtained to ensure the global stability of DTCNNs with delays based on comparison methods (not based on the well-known Liapunov methods). Finally, the simulating results demonstrate the validity and feasibility of our proposed approach.
We have noted that the local minima problem in the back-propagation algorithm is usually caused by update disharmony between weights connected to the hidden layer and the output layer. To solve this problem, we propose a modified error function with added terms. By adding one term to the conventional error function, the modified error function can harmonize the update of weights connected to the hidden layer and the output layer. Thus, it can avoid the local minima problem caused by such disharmony. Moreover, some new learning parameters introduced for the added term are easy to select. Simulations on the modified XOR problem have been performed to test the validity of the modified error function.
A new approach to stellar recognition is proposed. It uses extended Kalman filter as a feature selector and pre-classifier for stellar spectra data, while radial basis function neural networks is adopted for classification. Experiments with real-world data set show that the performance of the proposed technique is quite well, and the correct classification rate can reach as high as 93%. It is shown that the result using EKF is better than that using principle component analysis data dimension reduction technique.
In this paper, some sufficient conditions are obtained to guarantee that discrete time cellular neural networks (DTCNNs) can have some stable memory patterns. These conditions can be directly derived from the structure of the neural networks. Moreover, the method of how to estimate of the attracting domain of such stable memory patterns is also described in this paper. In addition, a new design algorithm for DTCNNs is developed based on stability theory (not based on the well-known perceptron training algorithm), and the convergence of the design algorithm can be guaranteed by some stability theorems. Finally, the simulating results demonstrate the validity and feasibility of our proposed approach.
This paper presents an two weighted neural network approach to determine the delay time for a heating, ventilating and air-conditioning (HVAC) plan to respond to control actions. The two weighted neural network is a fully connected four-layer network. An acceleration technique was used to improve the General Delta Rule for the learning process. Experimental data for heating and cooling modes were used with both the two weighted neural network and a traditional mathematical method to determine the delay time. The results show that two weighted neural networks can be used effectively determining the delay time for AVAC systems.
Higher-order neural units have good computational properties in information processing and control applications. This paper presents higher-order neural units for visual image processing. We use the higher-order neural units for edge detection and employ the Hough transform to process the edge detection results. The higher-order neural unit based edge detection method has been applied to solve routing problems for mobile robots. Simulation results show that the proposed higher-order neural units are efficient for image processing and routing applications of mobile robots.
In this paper, we present an algorithm to compute the projection of a quasi variety over an algebraic closed field. Based on the algorithm, we give a,method to prove geometric theorem mechanically, and the non-degenerate conditions that we get by the method are proved to be the "weakest", i.e. the geometric theorem is true if and only if these non-degenerate conditions are satisfied. A method for automatic geometric formula deduction is also proposed based on the algorithm. The algorithm given in this paper has been implemented in computer algebra system Maple.
We introduce a software package, MMP/Geometer, developed by us to automate some of the basic geometric activities including geometric theorem proving, geometric theorem discovering, and geometric diagram generation. As a theorem prover, MMP/Geometer implements Wu's method for Euclidean and differential geometries, the area method and the geometric deductive database method. With these methods, we can not only prove difficult geometric theorems but also discover new theorems and generate short and readable proofs. As a geometric diagram editor, MMP/Geometer is an intelligent dynamic geometric software tool which may be used to input and manipulate geometric diagrams conveniently and interactively by combining the idea of dynamic geometry and methods of automated diagram generation.
Cayley algebra and bracket algebra are important approaches to invariant computing in projective and affine geometries, but there are some difficulties in doing algebraic computation. In this paper we show how the principle "breefs" - bracket-oriented representation, elimination and expansion for factored and shortest results, can significantly simplify algebraic computations. We present several typical examples on automated theorem proving in conics and make detailed discussions on the procedure of applying the principle to automated geometric theorem proving.
Credit assessment has attracted lots of researchers in financial and banking industry. Recent studies have shown that Artificial Intelligence (AI) methods are competitive to statistical methods for credit assessment. This article applies support vector machines (SVM), a relatively new machine learning technique, to the credit assessment problem for better explanatory power. The structure of SVM has many computation advantages, such as special direction at a finite sample and irrelevance between the complexity of algorithm and the sample dimension. A real credit card data experiment shows that SVM method has outstanding assessment ability. Compared with the methods that are currently used by a major Chinese bank, the SVM method has a great potential superiority in predicting accuracy.
Heuristics have been widely used in artificial intelligence related fields including path finding. In this paper, the author argue that different heuristics can be integrated to solve the path finding problems and set forward a solution integrating greedy heuristic, directional heuristic and hierarchical heuristic. In greedy heuristic, an improved Dijkstra's algorithm based on quad heap is set forward. Then an MBR for ellipse is presented to limit the searching extent. Thirdly, hierarchical spatial reasoning is used to build another heuristic considering the hierarchical structure of road network, which makes the optimum path selection completed in higher hierarchies as much as possible. A case study is carried out with a real road network to verify the efficiency and validation of the solution integrating the above algorithms.
With digital sports video increasing everyday, effective analyzing sports video content becomes more and more important. Effective and efficient representation of video for searching, retrieval, inference and mining is a key problem in knowledge engineering. To describe sports video content efficiently, sports video ontology for video annotation is represented in OWL, a description logic based Web Ontology Language. We describe a user-friendly platform for sports video annotation. Ontology based sports video annotation can facilitate video indexing, retrieval and reasoning in a broad range of applications including Digital Olympic Project in China. Moreover, we present a hierarchical sports video summarization strategy to browse the sports video in a progressive way. In sports video, replay scenes often represent the highlight or interesting event of the video. Hence, our representative scene selection is based on the replay detection algorithm and identical events detection. The basic experimental results show our strategy is effective.
Behavior analysis of credit cardholders is one of the main research topics in credit card portfolio management. Usually, the cardholder's behavior, especially bankruptcy, is measured by a score of aggregate attributes that describe cardholder's spending history. In the real-life practice, statistics and neural networks are the major players to calculate such a score system for prediction. Recently, various multiple criteria linear programming based classification methods have been explored for analyzing credit cardholders' behavior. This paper proposes a multiple criteria non-linear programming (MCNP) approach to discovering the bankruptcy patterns of credit cardholders. A real-life credit database from a major US bank is used for empirical study on MCNP classification. Finally, the comparison of MCNP and other known classification methods is conducted to verify the validation of MCNP method.
In this study, a novel hybrid AI system framework is developed by means of a systematic integration of artificial neural networks (ANN) and rule-based expert system (RES) with web-based text mining (WTM) techniques. Within the hybrid AI system framework, a fully novel hybrid AI forecasting approach with conditional judgment and correction is proposed for improving prediction performance. The proposed framework and approach are also illustrated with an example here.
Controlling 3D virtual human arm to achieve given tasks is a challenging goal for computer animators. In this paper, a new approach is proposed to plan the arm trajectory in three-dimensional space, which is an extended minimum hand jerk model based on spacetime constraints. Experimental results show that natural arm motion could be obtained by it.
Phase equilibrium calculation of thermodynamic system plays an important role in the separation and purification of many organic and inorganic materials. The phase diagram of protein aqueous system is predicted by the lattice thermodynamic model with parameters for the interaction between protein molecules in the liquid and in the solid phase. The essential features, such as liquid-liquid coexisting curve, spinodal curve and solubility curve were described based on the model reasonably. Also, the stable, unstable and metastable regions were shown clearly in the phase diagram. In the other hand, BP algorithm is proposed to simulate the solubility of protein in the salt aqueous and it would avoid the complexity of rigorous thermodynamic model and inaccuracy of estimation of interaction parameters. The results obtained with both of the approaches were compared with the experimental data. With predicted digital phase diagram, the protein crystallization process could be understood much intuitively and much flexibly. It offers a theoretical base for simulation and optimization of the crystallization process of proteins.
This paper describes a new method for a mobile robot equipped with ultrasonic sensors to construct and maintain a map of the environment for the purpose of obstacle avoidance and navigation. A new sonar model is given, which is a simplified Gaussian model for the sake of computing time. Furthermore, incidence angle information of sonar is combined with the range measurement to construct a two-dimensional histogram grid. The histogram grid shows a quick and accurate mapping. At the same time, with the incidence angle information, the method exhibits a good performance in solving the problem of door-finding and reducing phantom targets. Finally, the map-building system is experimentally evaluated in the real environment.
Considering the deficiency of present robotic force control algorithm, we introduce artificial intelligent method in this paper. We attempt to combine fuzzy control theory with impedance control strategy, and attempt to control the external force on the robotic end-effector by this quomodo. The structure of the system is presented and the force controller is designed. Finally we show the results based on the practical experiments. It is a more effective strategy to solve the robotic force control problem.
This paper introduces a self-tuning fuzzy PI+PD algorithm for processing the DC servo system of a four leg robot. The control process is online, of which the fuzzy rules are generated analytically. The inference and defuzzification of this fuzzy control method are based on phase plane and centroid, thus it costs less processing time. Through self-tuning gain and self-optimizing in the control process, the servo system of the robot is robust, and its control performance is also good.
Parallel Wire Robot (PWR) is a bionic mechanism manipulator, whose flexibility of wires is similar to the compliance of human muscles. In this paper, a 3-dof Parallel Wire Driven (PWD) manipulator configuration is presented, and the modeling and the tracking control of this kind of robot is studied. In PWD manipulators, the elastic units (wires) which are in parallel make the coupling and the nonlinearity of the model increased. So a singular perturbation theory, based on which the two-time scale control law can be obtained, is chosen as the control strategy. Then, according to the stiffness analysis results([15]), a stiffness control law which can separate stiffness control from position control is designed to realize a variable manipulator. At last, a numerical simulation is provided for verifying the theoretical researches on tracking control and stiffness control.
As a hyper-redundant robot, a 3D snake-like robot can perform many other configurations and types of locomotion adapted to environment except for mimicking the natural snake locomotion. The natural snake locomotion usually limits locomotion capability of the robot because of inadequacy in the mechanism and actuation to imitate characters of natural snake such as the too many DOFs and the characteristics of the muscle. In order to apply snake-like robots to the unstructured environment, the researchers have designed many gaits for increasing the adaptability to a variety of surroundings. The twist-related locomotion is an effective gait achieved by jointly driving the pitching-DOF and yawing-DOF, with which the snake-like robot can move on rough ground and even climb up some obstacles. In this paper, the twist-related locomotion function is firstly solved, and simplified to he expressed by sine or cosine function. The 2D locomotion such as V-shape and U-shape is achieved. Also by applying it to the serpentine locomotion or other types of locomotion, the snake-like robot can complete composite locomotion that combines the serpentine locomotion or others with twist-related locomotion. Then we extend the twist-related locomotion to 3D space. Finally, the experimental results are presented to validate all above analyses.
To acquire more environmental information for planning further tasks, the snake-like robot has to raise its head to observe the situation at a high position due to its low-height stature, which resembles the head-raising motion of the natural snake. In this paper, the motion of snake-like robot raising head is realized by improving the serpentine input function, and two methods of head raising motion were proposed. The dynamic model of head-raising motion is built to analyze the input torque of each joint for getting optimal dynamic performance. Comparative results of two methods of head-raising motion are shown by computer simulations, and the stability of motion is analyzed by means of ZMP(Zero Moment Point) method. The experimental results show the validity of the presented methods.
This paper presents a Kalman filter approach for 3D motion estimation of an object that undergoes arbitrary rotational and translational motion. Problem considered here is error propagation from image features to 3D motion estimation. To this end, we have derived a new set of equations for motion estimation: (1) Lagrange interpolation and numerical integration are introduced to construct the dynamic equation, which is adaptable to the kinematics process of diverse 3D motion. (2) An adaptively estimated fading factor is imported to restrain the filter divergence caused by the truncation errors. (3) As for the measurement model, linear measurement equations relating the estimated pose parameters and the true ones are derived by exploring the relationship between the feature locations and the object pose (position anti orientation) parameters. The proposed approach is suitable for real-time environment in terms of the following aspects: the structure of the filter is simplified by avoiding the need of EKF, the computational cost is much reduced by running six filters on the six motion parameters in parallel; the process to extract the feature points became much simplified due to the predicted information provided by the filter; time efficiency is increased because the sequence of image frames is allowed to be at unequal intervals. Simulation results and implement of it system for multimobile robots formation show the capacity of this algorithm.
The methods to improve the robustness and adaptability of arc welding robots are presented. Image processing algorithm for feature extraction from structured light images of weld seam is discussed in the case of a large amount of strong reflection, arc light and splash disturbance. The processes consist of defining target region, selecting adaptive threshold and extracting feature points. Then a novel hybrid visual servo control method for arc welding robot is provided, in which the position-based and image-based visual servo method are integrated to increase the robustness of weld seam tracking. The welding experiment is well conducted to verify the methods.
With the tremendous advances in hand-held computing and communication capabilities, rapid proliferation of mobile computing environments, and decreasing device costs, we are seeing a growth in mobile e-Geoscience in various consumer and business markets. The trend is also picking up in large enterprises where dependency on mobile e-business environments hits become routine for thousands of employees conducting, daily business activities. Grid is a new technology. With corresponding middle,vi-are it can give strong computing power. In this paper we mainly discuss our experience on the middleware development and architecture used in remote sensing, data analysis using Mobile handheld devices. It clearly shows that the possibilities of using Grid computing technology to real-time update spatial databases regularly by means of telecommunications systems in order to support problem solving, and decision-making at any time and any place.
This paper describes the application of neural networks to targets classification from multi-polarization ENVISAT-ASAR imagery. The used neural nenvork is multilayer perceptron (MLP) with fast learning (FL), which is fully interconnected network. Accordingly, the training data sets may be taken from a known truth data in the ground. And finally, the results of proposed method are compared with that of the other classification ones, the in situ test data are from Zhaoqing in Guangdong Province of China.
This paper presents all approach to the control of a formation of autonomous robots using a perceptive reference frame. The perceptive frame uses a parameter that is directly related the fusion of the sensory measurement of the formation as the motion reference. The paper presents the concept of the perceptive reference frame and the design procedure based oil the perceptive reference. The stability of the system based oil the perceptive reference is investigated. Examples are given to show the flexibility and advantage of the proposed approach. Some useful strategies of coordination are implemented in a perceptive frame by reference projections. The feature of the coordination is illustrated by experiments using three mobile robots. Lab experiments oil mobile robot are carried out in an environment with unexpected obstacles and unexpected stop for all arbitrary period of time.
The fusion system designing of multiple classifiers, which is based on the radial basis probabilistic neural network (RBPNN), is discussed in this paper. By means of the proposed design method, the complex structure optimization can be effectively avoided in the designing procedure of the RBPNN. In addition, D-S fusion algorithm adopted in the system greatly improves the classification performance for the complexity problem of the real-world. The simulation results demonstrate that the designing case of the fusion system based on the RBPNNs is feasible and effective.
Aimed at complexity and uncertainty of electric minicar driving system, such as vehicle velocity, road condition, environment disturbance, storage battery and given signal etc., which are uncertain, cross-relative, nonlinear and time-varying, it is very difficult to describe it through mathematic model. Therefore, in this paper, authors select fuzzy control as control strategy, apply single chip processor to implement hardware, adopt two-dimension fuzzy control pattern, whose input variables are error and change of error, respectively, through querying list algorithm to realize fuzzy inference. On the basis, developing corresponding fuzzy control system, whose structure adopted two closed-loop, the result shows that effect of control is satisfied.
In this paper, the relationship between meteorological conditions and diseases is investigated. The relative fitting errors for nine kinds of diseases are within the limit of 0.048-0.228. These results are the bases of researches of mechanism and a component of the numerical model which has been used in the prediction of diseases.
Case retrieval in case-based reasoning relies heavily on the design of a good similarity function. This paper provides an approach to utilizing the correlative information among features to compute the similarity of cases for case retrieval. This is achieved by extending the dot product-based linear similarity measures to their nonlinear versions with kernel functions. An application to the peptide retrieval problem in bioinformatics shows the effectiveness of the approach. In this problem, the objective is to retrieve the corresponding peptide to the input tandem mass spectrum from a large database of known peptides. By a kernel function implicitly mapping the tandem mass spectrum to a high dimensional space, the correlative information among fragment ions in a tandem mass spectrum can be modeled to dramatically reduce the stochastic mismatches. The experiment on the real spectra dataset shows a significant reduction of 10% in the error rate as compared to a common linear similarity function.
A comprehensive control algorithm which combines GPC and FC is presented, i.e. multi-type control. The design thoughts of the multi-type control is emphatically expounded. MATLAB software is also, used to simulate the control system. The simulation results indicate that the control effect of multi-type control is much better than that of the single generalized predictive control system.
System modeling and controller problem are studied for a humanoid with a holonomic omnidirectional platform consisted of three lateral orthogonal wheel assemblies. Firstly, based on decentralized-body modeling idea, the relative accuracy of mechanism modeling method is combined with the advantage of connectionism of the neural network for the modeling of this humanoid robot. Secondly, using the resulting model, a new neural-network-based adaptive H-infinity position tracking controller is proposed. The robust nonlinear H-infinity control approach and model direct adaptive neural network technique are integrated together naturally. The closed-loop system robust stability is proved. Finally, the simulation results indicate that the proposed methodology is valid and effective.
Food packing, including food localization, food grasping and food assembly, is important to human daily life and is very labour-consuming so far.
Chained from systems have been introduced to model the kinemics of a class of nonholonomic mechanical systems. The problem of the exponential stabilization of a driftless nonholonomic chained system is addressed and Solved by means of a time-varying control law. It is shown that our approach yields exponential convergence to the origin. Furthermore the parameters of the obtained scheme have clear physical meanings so as to be easily tuned. The proposed strategy is applied to the stabilization of a wheeled mobile robot and simulation results are given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the developed method.
A model reference adaptive inverse control system (MRAICS) based on fuzzy neural networks (FNN), which comprises adaptive disturbance canceler and feedback compensation, is presented in this paper. The feedback compensation can counteract the MRAIC system's direct current zero-frequency drift. The adaptive disturbance canceler can best erase disturbances. Nonlinear filters based on FNN are used in the nonlinear plant modeling, the design of the controller and adaptive disturbance canceller. The nonlinear filters can deal with nonlinear system and result in fast convergence. Simulation result shows that the approach is effective.
In this article, we introduce selective bagging based incremental learning, an algorithm for incremental learning using selective ensemble. Selective bagging gains new information from the incremental data by selecting proper components. In the first situation of the incremental learning process, we train component predictors by bootstrap sampling on the original data set, and then constitute the ensemble predictor by selecting proper component predictors based on a genetic algorithm. In the next situation, we re-select proper component predictors from the original component predictors on the incremental data set; or more new component predictors are trained on the incremental data set, and a new ensemble predictor is constituted by selecting some proper predictors from all component predictors on all validation data. The proposed algorithm enables the resulting ensemble predictor to learn new information from new data set without forgetting previously acquired knowledge. Experiments on handwritten digit recognition indicate that selective bagging based incremental learning is a promising learning algorithm.
In order to adopt reinforcement learning for complicated and continuous systems, an adaptive control scheme based on Normalized. Radial Basis Function under the structure of Actor-Critic is proposed. The state value function and action-state value function are approximated by the identical Normalized Radial Basis function neural network. Taking into account the adaptivity and computational efficiency, input layer and hidden layer of NRBF network are shared by the Actor and Critic. The units of the hidden layer can be adaptively added and deleted according to task requirement during the learning process. This method was applied to the balance of an inverted pendulum. The simulation result in the paper evaluates the validity of the proposed algorithm.
This paper is devoted to the problem of reinforcement learning in multi-agent systems. Multi-agent systems form a particular type of distributed artificial intelligence system. This paper presents an approach based on agents' cooperation for a common goal. By using other agents' experiences and knowledge, an agent may learn faster, make fewer mistakes, and create some rules for unseen situations. But the information communion among agents is deficient and limited. In this paper, we assume that every agent can only observe its neighbors' current positions and can see whether or not they reach the goal after the actions have been taken. Experimental results show the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
Perceptual learning is happened at the perceptual level. We combine holism and reductionism together to research on perception learning. Based on information geometry the paper will present a neural field model which is referred to understand the transformation mechanism, dynamical behavior, capability and limitation of neural network models, by the study of globally topological and geometrical structure on parameter spaces of neural networks. In this paper we will discuss neural field representation, fractal learning principle, topology approximation correction learning and dualistic correction learning algorithm. Finally the paper will give a conclusions and point out future research topics.
In this paper we present a neural network approach for the real-time optimization and control of interconnected nonlinear systems in the presence of more general constraints, i.e. equality and inequality constraints, and bound-constrained variables. For the interconnected system with bound-constrained variables, we transform it into an equivalent formulation without bound constraints. With the help of auxiliary variables, the inequality constrained problem is reformulated as a problem with only equality constraints. Moreover an electrocircuit is proposed for implementing the La-grange neurons in the inequality constrained systems. Simulation studies show that this proposed method is satisfactory for the real-time optimization and control of large-scale systems.
Agent-oriented programming is an important technology for autonomic computing and grid computing. Advances in agent technology depend on improving frameworks for building and supporting agent societies. Experience suggests that first generation multi-agent systems focus only on some aspects and fall short of providing a rapid prototyping development environment for the systematic analyze, design, construction and deployment of agent-oriented applications. This paper presents MAGE, an agent-oriented programming environment, with complete tools to support agent-oriented requirement analysis, design, development and deployment. It also gives some comparison between MAGE and other multi-agent platforms with particular focus on methodology. At last, this paper gives some applications on MAGE.
The largest damming project to date, the Three Gorges Dam has been built along the Yangtze River (China), the most species-rich river in the Palearctic region. Among 162 species of fish inhabiting the main channel of the upper Yangtze, 44 are endemic and are therefore under serious threat of global extinction from the dam. Accordingly, it is urgently necessary to develop strategies to minimize the impacts of the drastic environmental changes associated with the dam. We sought to identify potential reserves for the endemic species among the 17 tributaries in the upper Yangtze, based on presence/absence data for the 44 endemic species. Potential reserves for the endemic species were identified by characterizing the distribution patterns of endemic species with an adaptive learning algorithm called a "self-organizing map" (SOM). Using this method, we also predicted occurrence probabilities of species in potential reserves based on the distribution patterns of communities. Considering both SOM model results and actual knowledge of the biology of the considered species, our results suggested that 24 species may survive in the tributaries, 14 have an uncertain future, and 6 have a high probability of becoming extinct after dam filling.
Groundwater and soil contamination caused by light nonaqueous phase liquids (LNAPLs) spills and leakage in petroleum industry is currently one of the major environmental concerns in North America. Numerous site remediation technologies, generally classified as ex situ and in situ remediation techniques, have been developed and implemented to clean up the contaminated sites in the last two decades. One of the problems associated with ex situ remediation is the cost of operation. In recent years, in situ techniques have acquired popularity. However, the selection process of the desired techniques needs a large amount of knowledge. Insufficient expertise in the process may result in unnecessary inflation of expenses. In this study, petroleum waste management experts and Artificial Intelligence ( AI) researchers worked together to develop an expert system ( ES) for the management of petroleum contaminated sites. Various AI techniques were used to construct a useful tool for site remediation decision-making. This paper presents the knowledge engineering processes of knowledge acquisition, conceptual design, and system implementation in the project. The expert system was applied to a real-world case study and the results show that the expert system can generate desired remediation alternatives to assist decision-makers. The application case study constitutes partial validation of the prototype expert system.
This letter investigates the possibility of using a new universal approximator-support vector machines (SVMs)-as the nonlinear transfer function between oceanic chlorophyll concentration and marine reflectance. The SeaBAM dataset is used to evaluate the proposed approach. Experimental results show that the SVM performs as well as the optimal multilayer perceptron (MLP) and can be a promising alternative to the conventional MLPs for the retrieval of oceanic chlorophyll concentration from marine reflectance.
The homo-dimer, homo-trimer, homo-tetramer and homo-hexamer of protein were classified using both of support vector machine and Bayes covariant discriminant methods. It was found that the total accuracies of "one-versus-rest" and "all-versus-all" are 77.36% and 93.43% respectively using support vector machine in jackknife test, which are 26.72 and 42.79 percentile higher respectively than that of Bayes covariant discriminant method in the same test. These results show that the support vector machine is a specially effective method for classifying the higher protein homo-oligomers from protein primary sequences. Using "all-versus-all" policy is better than "one-versus-rest" policy for classifying homo-oligomers; based on the same machine learning method ( such as support vector machine). And it was also indicated that the primary sequences of homo-oligomeric proteins contain quaternary information.
Artificial intelligence has been used to obtain background factors (basic environmental factors) from landslide specialists. A 3D visible evaluation map may be charted by fuzzy evaluation, and the traditional plane map may be decoded into a 3D map by using factor weight from specialists system and technology of RS and GIS for quantitative sampling of these factors.
A novel approach is proposed for the simultaneous optimization of mobile phase pH and gradient steepness in RP-HPLC using artificial neural networks. By presetting the initial and final concentration of the organic solvent, a limited number of experiments with different gradient time and pH value of mobile phase are arranged in the two-dimensional space of mobile phase parameters. The retention behavior of each solute is modeled using an individual artificial neural network. An "early stopping" strategy is adopted to ensure the predicting capability of neural networks. The trained neural networks can be used to predict the retention time of solutes under arbitrary mobile phase conditions in the optimization region. Finally, the optimal separation conditions can be found according to a global resolution function. The effectiveness of this method is validated by optimization of separation conditions for amino acids derivatised by a new fluorescent reagent.
In this paper we establish the Cayley expansion theory on factored and shortest expansions of typical Cayley expressions in two- and three-dimensional projective geometry. We set up a group of Cayley factorization formulae based on the classification of Cayley expansions. We continue to establish three powerful simplification techniques in bracket computation. On top of the Cayley expansions and simplifications, together with a set of elimination rules, we design an algorithm that can produce extremely short proofs in two- and three-dimensional projective geometry. The techniques developed here can be immediately applied to other symbolic computation tasks involving brackets. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper we study plane conic geometry, particularly different representations of geometric constructions and relations in plane conic geometry, with Cayley and bracket algebras. We propose three powerful simplification techniques for bracket computation involving conic points, and an algorithm for rational Cayley factorization in conic geometry. The factorization algorithm is not a general one, but works for all the examples tried so far. We establish a series of elimination rules for various geometric constructions based on the idea of bracket-oriented representation and elimination, and an algorithm for optimal representation of the conclusion in theorem proving. These techniques can be used in any applications involving brackets and conics. In theorem proving, our algorithm based on these techniques can produce extremely short proofs for difficult theorems in conic geometry. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In the protein universe, many proteins are composed of two or more polypeptide chains, generally referred to as subunits, that associate through noncovalent interactions and, occasionally, disulfide bonds. With the number of protein sequences entering into data banks rapidly increasing, we are confronted with a challenge: how to develop an automated method to identify the quaternary attribute for a new polypeptide chain (i.e., whether it is formed just as a monomer, or as a dimer, trimer, or any other oligomer). This is important, because the functions of proteins are closely related to their quaternary attribute. For example, some critical ligands only bind to dimers but not to monomers; some marvelous allosteric transitions only occur in tetramers but not other oligomers; and some ion channels are formed by tetramers, whereas others are formed by pentamers. To explore this problem, we adopted the pseudo amino acid composition originally proposed for improving the prediction of protein subcellular location (Chou, Proteins, 2001; 43:246-255). The advantage of using the pseudo amino acid composition to represent a protein is that it has paved a way that can take into account a considerable amount of sequence-order effects to significantly improve prediction quality. Results obtained by resubstitution, jack-knife, and independent data set tests, have indicated that the current approach might be quite promising in dealing with such an extremely complicated and difficult problem. (C) 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
A two-step learning scheme for radial basis function neural networks (RBFNN) is proposed. A genetic algorithm initially optimises the parameters of the RBFNN and a hybrid learning algorithm adjusts these parameters further. The designed network is not only parsimonious but also has better generalisation performance.
Structural elucidation (automatic determination of the structure of a molecule from its spectra) is frequently hampered by combinatorial explosion when trying to assemble the identified substructures. We devised a new method which can avoid this pitfall by a systematic examination of allowed C-13 chemical shifts ranges for all substructures chemically possible and combined with a progressive pruning thanks to neighbouring relationships appearing from 2D NMR. This method is explained by a detailed example.
The number of hidden neurons of feed-forward neural networks is generally decided on the basis of experience. The method usually results ill the lack or redundancy of hidden neurons, and causes the shortage of capacity for storing information or learning overmuch. This research proposes a new method for optimizing the number of hidden neurons based on information entropy. Firstly, an initial neural network with enough hidden neurons should be trained by a set of training samples. Secondly, the activation values of hidden neurons should be calculated by inputting the training samples that can be identified correctly by the trained neural network. Thirdly, all kinds of partitions should be tried and its information gain should be calculated, and then a decision tree for correctly dividing the whole sample space call be constructed. Finally, the important and related hidden neurons that are included in the tree can be found by searching the whole tree, and other redundant hidden neurons can be deleted. Thus, the number of hidden neurons can be decided. Taking a neural network with the best number of hidden units for tea quality evaluation as all example, the result shows that the method is effective. (C) 2003 Published by Elsevier B.V.
Up to now, the shortest invariant representation of a quadric has 138 summands and there has been no invariant representation of a twisted cubic in 3D projective space, which limit to some extent the applications of invariants in 3D space. In this paper, we give a very short invariant representation of a quadric cone, a special quadric, which has only two summands similar to the invariant representation of a planar conic, and give a short invariant representation of a twisted cubic. Then, a completely linear algorithm for generating the parametric equations of a twisted cubic is provided also. Finally, we exemplify some applications of our proposed invariant representations in the fields of computer vision and automated geometric theorem proving.
An active document framework is a self-representable, self-explainable, and self-executable document mechanism. A document's content is reflected in four aspects: granularity hierarchy, template hierarchy, background knowledge, and semantic links between fragments. An active document has a set of build-in engines for browsing, retrieving, and reasoning, which can work in a way best suited to the document's content. Besides browsing and retrieval services, the active document supports intelligent information services such as complex question answering, online teaching, and assistant problem solving. The client side service provider is only responsible for the retrieval of the required active document. The detailed information services are provided by the document mechanism. This improves the current Web information retrieval approach by raising the efficiency of information retrieval, enhancing the preciseness and mobility of information services, and enabling intelligent information services. A tool for making semantic links in a document and an intelligent browser have been developed to support the proposed approach, which provides a new type of web information service. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
A new fuzzy controller for anti-swing and position control of an overhead traveling crane is proposed based on the Single Input Rule Modules (SIRMs) dynamically connected fuzzy inference model. The trolley position and velocity, the rope swing angle and angular velocity are selected as the input items, and the trolley acceleration as the output item. Each input item is given with a SIRM and a dynamic importance degree. The control system is proved to be asymptotically stable to the destination. The controller is robust to different rope lengths and has generalization ability for different initial positions. Control simulation results show that by using the fuzzy controller, the crane is smoothly driven to the destination in short time with small swing angle and almost no overshoot. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
For a QSAR of the toxicity of aminobenzenes in environment and their structures, the projection areas of the molecules in 3D space were calculated. The combinations of the projection areas and quantum chemical as well as topological parameters were performed for the methods of regression analysis and neural network, and much better results than that by using CoMFA were achieved.
Star sensor is an avionics instrument used to provide the absolute 3-axis attitude of a spacecraft by utilizing star observations. The key function is to recognize the observed stars by comparing them with the reference catalogue. Autonomous star pattern recognition requires that similar patterns can be distinguished from each other with a small training set. Therefore, a new method based on neural network technology is proposed and a recognition system containing parallel backpropagation (BP) multi-subnets is designed. The simulation results show that the method performs much better than traditional algorithms and the proposed system can achieve both higher recognition accuracy and faster recognition speed.
The central pier (CP) is one of the key structures of the permanent shiplock in the Three Gorges Project on the Yangtze River, China. This paper deals with the study of the rock mass deformation of the CP of the second shiplock under various operation conditions. Numerical simulations using the 2-D distinct-element method and 3-D finite-element method are applied to analyze the rock mass deformation. Also, time-series analysis and gray system theory are used to predict the trends of rock displacements based on in situ measured data. The results can be summarized as follows: (1) the main deformation of the rock mass in the CP occurs after excavation completion, while the shiplock is in operation, the dominant displacements mainly occurring on both sides of the northern chamber, developing generally towards the chamber; (2) the horizontal displacement varies with the process of excavation, and is in a steady state after excavation, and during operation of the shiplock the displacement is slightly decreased; (3) the horizontal displacement parallel to the axial line of the shiplock occurs downstream; and (4) the vertical displacement occurs during excavation, and then subsidence with various values takes place in different parts of the CP for different operation conditions. (C) 2003 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper discusses two industrial control applications using advanced control techniques. They are the optimal-tuning nonlinear PID control of hydraulic systems and the neural predictive control of combustor acoustic of gas turbines. For hydraulic control systems, an optimal PID controller with inverse of dead zone is introduced to overcome the dead zone and is designed to satisfy desired time-domain performance requirements. Using the adaptive model, an optimal-tuning PID control scheme is proposed to provide optimal PID parameters even in the case where the system dynamics is time variant. For combustor acoustic control of gas turbines, a neural predictive control strategy is presented, which consists of three parts: an output model, output predictor and feedback controller. The output model of the combustor acoustic is established using neural networks to predict the output and overcome the time delay of the system, which is often very large, compared with the sampling period. The output-feedback controller is introduced which uses the output of the predictor to suppress instability in the combustion process. The above control strategies are implemented in the SIMULINK/dSPACE controller development environment. Their performance is evaluated on the industrial hydraulic test rig and the industrial combustor test rig.
This paper investigates an important problem concerning the complexity of three-layer binary neural networks (BNNs) with one hidden layer. The neuron in the studied BNNs employs a hard limiter activation function with only integer weights and an integer threshold. The studies are focused on implementations of arbitrary Boolean functions which map from {0,1}(n) into {0,1}. A deterministic algorithm called set covering algorithm (SCA) is proposed for the construction of a three-layer BNN to implement an arbitrary Boolean function. The SCA is based on a unit sphere covering (USC) of the Hamming space (HS) which is chosen in advance. It is proved that for the implementation of an arbitrary Boolean function of n-variables (n greater than or equal to 3) by using SCA, [3L/2] hidden neurons are necessary and sufficient, where L is the number of unit spheres contained in the chosen USC of the n-dimensional HS. It is shown that by using SCA, the number of hidden neurons required is much less than that by using a two-parallel hyperplane method. In order to indicate the potential ability of three-layer BNNs, a lower bound on the required number of hidden neurons which is derived by using the method of estimating the Vapnik-Chervonenkis (VC) dimension is also given. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
Most algorithms for protein secondary structure prediction are based on machine learning techniques, e.g. neural networks. Good architectures and learning methods have improved the performance continuously. The introduction of profile methods, e.g. PSI-BLAST, has been a major breakthrough in increasing the prediction accuracy to close to 80%. In this paper, a brute-force algorithm is proposed and the reliability of each prediction is estimated by a z-score based on local sequence clustering. This algorithm is intended to perform well for those secondary structures in a protein whose formation is mainly dominated by the neighboring sequences and short-range interactions. A reliability z-score has been defined to estimate the goodness of a putative cluster found for a query sequence in a database. The database for prediction was constructed by experimentally determined, non-redundant protein structures with <25% sequence homology, a list maintained by PDBSELECT. Our test results have shown that this new algorithm, belonging to what is known as nearest neighbor methods, performed very well within the expectation of previous methods and that the reliability z-score as defined was correlated with the reliability of prediction. This led to the possibility of making very accurate predictions for a few selected residues in a protein with an accuracy measure of Q(3) > 80%. The further development of this algorithm, and a nucleation mechanism for protein folding are suggested.
For the purpose of human-computer interaction (HCI), a vision-based gesture segmentation approach is proposed. The technique essentially includes skin color detection and gesture segmentation. The skin color detection employs a skin-color artificial neural network (ANN). To merge and segment the region of interest, we propose a novel mountain algorithm. The details of the approach and experiment results are provided. The experimental segmentation accuracy is 96.25%. (C) 2003 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers.
It is well known that data mining has been implemented by statistical regressions, induction decision tree, neural networks, rough set, fuzzy set and etc. This paper promotes a multiple criteria linear programming (MCLP) approach to data mining based on linear discriminant analysis. This paper first describes the fundamental connections between MCLP and data mining, including several general models of MCLP approaches. Given the general models, it focuses on a designing architecture of MCLP-data mining algorithms in terms of a process of real-life business intelligence. This architecture consists of finding MCLP solutions, preparing mining scores, and interpreting the knowledge patterns. Secondly, this paper elaborates the software development of the MCLP-data mining algorithms. Based on a pseudo coding, two versions of software (SAS- and Linux-platform) will be discussed. Finally, the software performance analysis over business and experimental databases is reported to show its mining and prediction power. As a part of the performance analysis, a series of data testing comparisons between the MCLP and induction decision tree approaches are demonstrated. These findings suggest that the MCLP-data mining techniques have a great potential in discovering knowledge patterns from a large-scale real-life database or data warehouse.
We put forward two classification algorithms, support vector machines (SVM) and learning vector quantization (LVQ), to study the distribution of various astronomical sources in the multidimensional parameter space. By positional cross-correlation, the multiwavelength data of 1656 active galactic nuclei (AGNs), 3718 stars, and 173 galaxies are obtained from optical (USNO-A2.0), X-ray (ROSAT), and infrared ( Two Micron All-Sky Survey) bands. We have applied principal component analysis (PCA) to the sample, unveiling correlations between parameters and reducing the dimensionality of the input parameter space. Then, taking the preprocessed data of PCA as input, we apply SVM and LVQ to classify stars, AGNs, and normal galaxies and compare their performances. From the classified results, we conclude that PCA + LVQ and PCA + SVM are effective methods to classify sources with multiwavelength data; moreover, the two methods gave comparable results in a number of situations. Generally, PCA + SVM gave better results; however, PCA + LVQ was considerably faster in terms of computation time. What is more, the classifiers derived by these methods can be used to preselect candidates for large surveys, reducing time and energy wasted. Therefore, the efficiency of high-cost telescopes will be improved. In addition, these methods will be useful to develop the toolkits of the International Virtual Observatory.
A practical neural network model for morphological filtering and a simulated annealing optimal algorithm for the network parameters training are proposed in this paper. It is pointed out that the optimal designing process of the morphological filtering network in fact is the optimal learning process of adjusting network parameters (structuring element, or SE for short) to accommodate image environment. Then the network structure may possess the characteristics of image targets, and so give specific information to the SE. Morphological filters formed in this way become certainly intelligent and can provide good filtering results and robust adaptability to complex changing image. For application to motional image target detection, dynamic training algorithm is applied to the designing process using asymptotic shrinking error and appropriate network weights adjusting. Experimental results show that the algorithm has invariant property with respect to shift, scale and rotation of moving target in continuing detection of moving targets.
In this paper, we present a novel method for spectral signal pattern recognition. Considering the characteristics of spectral signal, we designed a statistical mixture model which combined several radial basis function neural networks, and built a cost function for the recognition system. We derived the EM-like algorithm to estimate the model parameters through optimizing the system cost function. Consequently, a pattern recognizer was constructed for spectral feature recognition. Based on the real-world Raman spectral signals, we investigated the proposed algorithm for estimating mixture model parameters, then verified the constructed spectral pattern recognizer. In addition, we also investigated various methods to construct input feature vectors for the recognizer, such as characteristic wavelength with corresponding spectral intensity, or principal component analysis, and the effect of these input vectors applied to spectral pattern recognizer. Experimental results show that the model parameters can be estimated by the proposed algorithm effectively, and the constructed spectral pattern recognition model has a higher recognition accuracy. The method proposed in this paper for spectral pattern recognition may find relatively wide applications since it is based on a more general consideration.
Based on existing modelling theory and the visualization methodology of water erosion on hillslopes, this paper classifies models of overland flow and erosion as formal logic computational models and dialectical computational models, e.g. RSIMWEH (Remote Sensing Information Model of Water Erosion on Hillslopes). During the process of combining the latest technologies (particle systems and metaballs, which are based on the field of computer graphics) with RSIMWEH, we put forward the conception of erosion voxel, which is governed by the laws of geography. Using our method, we have successfully simulated irregular dynamic fuzzy objects and the erosion-voxel-based process of water erosion on hillslopes in 3D space.
A slab optical waveguide (SOWG) has been used for study of adsorption of both methylene blue (MB) and new methylene blue (NMB) in liquid-solid interface. Adsorption characteristics of MB and NMB on both bare SOWG and silanized SOWG by octadecyltrichlorosilane (ODS) were compared. The simultaneous determinations of both MB and NMB were explored by flow injection SOWG spectrophotometric analysis and artificial neural networks (ANNs) for the first time. Concentrations of MB and NMB were estimated simultaneously with the ANNs. Results obtained with SOWG were compared with those got by conventional UV-visible spectrophotometry. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V All rights reserved.
For LAMOST, the largest sky survey program in China, the solution of the problem of automatic discrimination of stars from galaxies by spectra has shown that the results of the PSF test can be significantly refined. However, the problem is made worse when the redshifts of galaxies are not available. We present a new automatic method of star/(normal) galaxy separation, which is based on Statistical Mixture Modeling with Radial Basis Function Neural Networks (SMM-RBFNN). This work is a continuation of our previous one, where active and non-active celestial objects were successfully segregated. By combining the method in this paper and the previous one, stars can now be effectively separated from galaxies and AGNs by their spectra-a major goal of LAMOST, and an indispensable step in any automatic spectrum classification system. In our work, the training set includes standard stellar spectra from Jacoby's spectrum library and simulated galaxy spectra of EO, SO, Sa, Sb types with redshift ranging from 0 to 1.2, and the test set of stellar spectra from Pickles' atlas and SDSS spectra of normal galaxies with SNR of 13. Experiments show that our SMM-RBFNN is more efficient in both the training and testing stages than the BPNN (back propagation neural networks), and more importantly, it can achieve a good classification accuracy of 99.22% and 96.52%, respectively for stars and normal galaxies.
Representation theory of quivers is applied to system theory. As a result, the regular points in system spaces are characterized. Moreover, all prestable points in system spaces are described and another generic property of linear systems is introduced. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.
Membrane proteins are generally classified into the following five types: 1), type I membrane protein; 2), type 11 membrane protein; 3), multipass transmembrane proteins; 4), lipid chain-anchored membrane proteins; and 5), GPI-anchored membrane proteins. In this article, based on the concept of using the functional domain composition to define a protein, the Support Vector Machine algorithm is developed for predicting the membrane protein type. High success rates are obtained by both the self-consistency and jackknife tests. The current approach, complemented with the powerful covariant discriminant algorithm based on the pseudo-amino acid composition that has incorporated quasi-sequence-order effect as recently proposed by K. C. Chou (2001), may become a very useful high-throughput tool in the area of bioinformatics and proteomics.
Thirteen kinds of normal and modified nucleosides were determined in urine samples from, 46 healthy persons and 26 breast cancer patients by capillary electrophoresis. A wavelet neural network model has been used as a powerful pattern recognition tool to distinguish breast cancer patients from healthy persons. The recognition rate for the training set reached to 100% and above 96% of people in the predicting set were correctly classified. Compared with standard backpropagation neural network, wavelet neural network had stronger abilities of information extraction and approximation. The results also demonstrated that the predicting ability of wavelet neural network was higher than those of principal component analysis and linear discriminant analysis. The combination of capillary electrophoresis and wavelet neural network was expected to be an assisted tool for the clinical diagnosis of breast cancer.
In this brief, we first introduce the working principle of a pacemaker neuron type integrat-and-fire circuit having two states With a periodic pulse-train input, which, is first proposed by Nakano, Mitsubori, and Saito. The dynamics of this circuit could be described by a standard impulsive differential equation and A applied to simulate the evolution of the pulse-coupled neural networks. By applying the Marotto theorem, we theoretically prove that the circuit becomes chaotic as the parameters,enter some regions. we find that the circuit does not exhibit chaotic dynamics with some little period of the pulse-train input. but it appears chaotic phenomenon with the increase of the period. The relations between this circuit and that of symbolic dynamics are further investigated. The following numerical simulations and corresponding calculation, as illustrative examples, reinforce our theoretical proof and theory.
Generation of desired trajectory behavior using neural networks involves a particularly challenging spatio-temporal learning problem due to the need for employing architectures with recurrent connections. This paper introduces a novel solution to the trajectory generation problem, i.e., designing a dynamic system whose terminal behavior emulates a prespecified spatio-temporal pattern independently of its initial conditions. The proposed solution uses a dynamic neural network (DNN), a hybrid architecture that employs a recurrent neural network (RNN) in cascade with a nonrecurrent neural network (NRNN). The RNN is in charge of generating a simple limit cycle, while the NRNN,is devoted to reshaping the limit cycle into the desired trajectory. The main advantage of this architecture is the simplicity of its, training which results from the simplification of the overall training task due to its decomposition into independent spatial and temporal learning subtasks, which in turn permits to reduce the training complexity to that of training a feedforward neural network alone. The solution to the trajectory generation problem presented here involves the synthesis of a very simple RNN which eliminates the need for any type of training of this network and enables all of the required training to be focused on the NRNN. As part of the overall design of the dynamic neural-network architecture, a systematic synthesis procedure based on the design of relay control systems is developed. for configuring an RNN that can produce a limit cycle of elementary complexity. It is further shown that a cascade arrangement of this RNN and an appropriately trained NRNN can emulate any desired trajectory behavior irrespective of its complexity. An interesting solution to the trajectory modulation problem, i.e., on-line modulation of the generated trajectories using external inputs, is also presented. Results of several experiments are included to demonstrate the capabilities, and performance of the DNN in handling trajectory generation and modulation problems.
This paper presents a fuzzy reasoning Petri net (R&N) model to represent a fuzzy production rule-based system. The issues of how to represent and reason about rules containing negative literals are addressed in the proposed PN model. The execution rules based,on the model are defined formally using the operators in max-algebra. Then, a fuzzy reasoning algorithm is proposed to perform fuzzy reasoning automatically. The algorithm is consistent with the matrix equation expression method in the traditional PNs and allows one to exploit the maximum parallel reasoning potential embedded in the model. The legitimacy and feasibility of the,proposed approach are proved and validated through a turbine fault diagnosis expert system.
Human cognition and work processes are two inseparable parts of human problem solving, however, the cognitive process is neglected in most research on knowledge-intensive team Cooperation. This paper presents an approach for modelling these two parts of the process for use by a distributed co-operative team. We define a new notion of cognitive flow to reflect the dynamic cognition processes of a team. The mechanism is built to model, control and manage the cognitive flow process. A solution for applying this approach to a distributed team during software development is presented. The experiment showed that the approach can improve the problem solving ability of a team. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper we present an approach to decoupled force/position control of the end-ffector along the same direction for redundant robots, and an approach to nonholonomic cart pushing with mobile manipulators. The mobile manipulator is considered as a redundant robot, and a unified dynamic model for an integrated mobile platform and on-board manipulator is developed. The dynamic model is decoupled and linearized using the nonlinear feedback technique in a unified frame. Combining the event-based planning and control method with singularity analysis of the robot arm, a task level action controller is designed and an online kinematic redundancy resolution scheme is developed. The system is stable during normal operation as well as at the occurrence of unexpected obstacles. In addition, explicit force/position control along the same task direction for redundant robots is proposed. The kinematic redundancy of mobile manipulators enables independent control of force and position along the same task directions. To verify the decoupled force/postion scheme, an integrated task planning and control approach is further proposed for the mobile manipulator to complete complicated tasks by regulating its output force. A cart pushing task, which requires both force and position control along the same task direction, is discussed. The cart manipulation task fully integrates trajectory and force planning of the cart, and planning and control of the mobile manipulators. The approaches have been tested on a mobile manipulator consisting of a Nomadic XR4000 and a Puma 560 robot arm. The experimental results demonstrate the efficacy of the approach for the mobile manipulation of a nonholonomic cart.
The support vector machine approach was introduced to predict the beta-turns in proteins. The overall self-consistency rate by the re-substitution test for the training or learning dataset reached 100%. Both the training dataset and independent testing dataset were taken from Chou [J. Pept. Res. 49 (1997) 120]. The success prediction rates by the jackknife test for the beta-turn subset of 455 tetrapeptides and non-beta-turn subset of 3807 tetrapeptides in the training dataset were 58.1 and 98.4%, respectively. The success rates with the independent dataset test for the beta-turn subset of 110 tetrapeptides and non-beta-turn subset of 30,231 tetrapeptides were 69.1 and 97.3%, respectively. The results obtained from this study support the conclusion that the residue-coupled effect along a tetrapeptide is important for the formation of a beta-turn. (C) 2003 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
With the fast development of the control theory and engineering, robotics and artificial intelligence have become the focus in the field of intelligent systems. But research in this field is based on a series of experiments and requires various robot platforms which are often unaffordable by the universities in developing countries. The intention of this paper is to present the idea of applying innovative control education and building a laboratory using low cost equipments. In this paper the architecture and control system of a new kind of low cost intelligent robot, "Ability Storm", is introduced. It not only shows the technical aspect, but also illustrates the related applications in control education. The versatility and effectiveness of this affordable intelligent robot platform are demonstrated through a number of experiments, including both basic laboratory experiments and other innovative project-oriented design, such as robot fire fighting, which clearly show the practicality and robustness of this cost-effective robot platform.
The sizes of astronomical surveys in different wavebands are increasing rapidly. Therefore, automatic classification of objects is becoming ever more important. We explore the performance of learning vector quantization (LVQ) in classifying multi-wavelength data. Our analysis concentrates on separating active sources from non-active ones. Different classes of X-ray emitters populate distinct regions of a multidimensional parameter space. In order to explore the distribution of various objects in a multidimensional parameter space, we positionally cross-correlate the data of quasars, BL Lacs, active galaxies, stars and normal galaxies in the optical, X-ray and infrared bands. We then apply LVQ to classify them with the obtained data. Our results show that LVQ is an effective method for separating AGNs from stars and normal galaxies with multi-wavelength data.
In this paper, we propose a method of recovering shape from shading that solves directly for the surface height using neural networks. The main motivation of this paper is to provide an answer to the open problem proposed by Zhou and Chellappa [11]. We first formulate the shape from shading problem by combining a triangular element surface model with a linearized reflectance map. Then, we use a linear feed-forward network architecture with six layers to compute the surface height with a singular value decomposition. The weights in the model initialized using eigenvectors and eigen-values of the stiffness matrix of objective functional. Experimental results show that our solution is very effective.
In finding roots of polynomials, often two or more roots that are close together in solution space are very difficult to be resolved by a root-finder. To solve this problem, this Letter proposes a dilation method to transform the positions of roots in space so that all roots in space are pulled further apart. As a result, those close (including complex) roots can be readily resolved efficiently by a root-finder. In addition, in this Letter a complex version of constrained learning algorithm is derived. Moreover, our previously proposing feedforward neural network (FNN) root-finder is adopted to address the root finding issue. Finally, some satisfactory results that support our approach are presented. (C) 2003 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
In terms of demands of rice farming in the southern China, the information processing system and the yield measurement system that is installed in combine harvester, are designed and completed. Now the systems have been used in demonstration site in the Experiment Base of Shanghai Precision Agriculture. Based on the idea of spatial-oriented, object-oriented, user-oriented, the Farm Geographic Information System for precision farming of rice was developed, which is characterized by intelligence and visualized. The Decision-making Management System is integrated with rice growth model, expert model for rice cultivation. The DGPS, RS, GIS and intelligence sensors and computer technique were adopted in building the artificial intelligence system for measuring grain yield that is installed in combine harvester, so the combine harvester could provide the grain yield distribution map real-timely. The environmental and economic assessment shows that the precision rice farming applied in the demonstration site will benefit the society, economy and ecology greatly.
This paper presents a stable neuro-fuzzy (NF) adaptive control approach for the trajectory tracking of the robotic manipulator with poorly known dynamics. Firstly, the fuzzy dynamic model of the manipulator is established using the Takagi-Sugeno (T-S) fuzzy framework with both structure and parameters identified through input/output data from the robot control process. Secondly, based on the derived fuzzy dynamics of the robotic manipulator, the dynamic NF adaptive controller is developed to improve the system performance by adaptively modifying the fuzzy model parameters on-line. The dynamic NF system aims to approximate the whole robot dynamics rather than its nonlinear components as is done by static neural networks. The dynamic inversion introduced for the controller design is constructed by the dynamic NF system and will help the NF controller design because it does not require the assumption that the robot states should be within a compact set. It is generally known that the compact set cannot be specified before the control loop is closed. Thirdly, the system stability and the convergence of tracking errors are guaranteed by Lya-punov stability theory, and the learning algorithm for the dynamic NF system is obtained thereby. Finally, simulation studies are carried out to show the viability and effectiveness of the proposed control approach. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
In order to improve timeliness of the current traffic routing algorithms, this paper proposed a traffic flow routing scheme based on CBR(Case Based Reasoning). In this scheme, current situation of road network which includes traffic flow of every road at time t, predict traffic flow of every road at time t + Deltat,routing strategy and evaluation index is regarded as a case, then when incidents occurs, the current situation of road network makes such a case. And the scheme will search similar cases in history case database to assist operators to make the final decision. Take Beijing as an example, this paper makes an detailed introduction of every step of the scheme.
Over the last ten years the number of passengers has increased by more than 50% and is expected to continue increasing at this rate. The yearly cost of acute congestion in many major airports airlines is estimated to be 10 billion. Furthermore, every day about 2000 flights of the global airlines are delayed by 15 minutes. In order to reduce congestion and avoid large delays, many researchers study air traffic flow management problem and put forward some models and practical methods (Integer Programming, Dynamic Programming etc.) to reduce the congestion of airport. This paper studies air traffic flow of single airport using fuzzy theory and fuzzy reasoning and then proposes a heuristic algorithm. At last, the simulation results show good performances of the algorithm in a practical example.
This paper focuses on how to find the Maximum Modulus Root (MMR) (real or complex) of an arbitrary polynomial. Efficient solution to this problem is important for many fields including neural computation and digital signal processing etc.. In this paper we present neural networks technique for solving this problem. Our Neural Root Finder (NRF) is designed based on partitioning Feedforward Neural Networks (FNN) trained with a Constrained Learning Algorithm (CLA) by imposing the a priori information about the root moment from polynomial into the error cost function. Experimental results show that this neural root-finding method is able to find the maximum modulus roots of polynomials rapidly and efficiently.
This paper explores the application of the behavior-based approach to path planning for multiple mobile robots performing a formation control task in unknown environments. To predict the positions of moving obstacles for the purpose of collision avoidance, parabola prediction model whose parameters are estimated by the recurrence least square algorithm with restricted scale is adopted. Then, on the basis of the task and environment, we adopt five primitive behaviors and design a series of generation functions to generate control parameters for behaviors' combination. Furthermore, as the outputs of these functions can be adjusted according to the current situation, thus robots can achieve a motion strategy by reasonably combining behaviors and the adaptability to the environment is improved. We illustrate the validity of the approach by the simulations.
Computer vision system is an important sensor for autonomous mobile robot. However, the design of a vision system that can satisfy the needs of both robustness and efficiency is still difficult. In this paper a fast and robust vision system is described which increases its speed and robustness through choosing suitable color space, algorithms of mathematical morphology and active adjustment in parameters. All of the algorithms are employed in a pan-tilt vision system of an autonomous mobile robot.
The voxel-based models are used extensively in many fields, such as medical image reconstruction, volume rendering and fluid dynamics, etc. Especially in Robotics, voxel-based model is a powerful tool to execute collision detection. Voxelization refers to a process to convert data from one source type into a three dimensional volume dataset. In this paper an algorithm is proposed to voxelize the polygonal meshes into contour voxel representation based on the octree structure. It is proved that our algorithm is efficient and effective to voxelize 3D polygon mesh models into voxel representation, which makes it possible be employed in robotics and current CAD systems for true solid modeling with particular interior attributes, such as colors, density and materials etc.
Collision avoidance is a fundamental problem of Multi-robot system. In this paper, we proposed a new and effective control algorithm for coordinating collision avoidance of multi-robots based on ACF The main theoretical results and simulations are given.
Following the principle of human skill learning, robot acquiring skill is a process similar to human skill learning. Reinforcement learning is on-line actor critic method for robot to develop its skill. The reinforcement function has become the critical component for its effect of evaluating the action and guiding the learning process. A difference form of augmented reward function is considered carefully. In this paper we present a strategy for the task of complex skill learning. Automatic robot shaping policy is to dissolve the complex skill into a hierarchical learning process. Variable resolution discretization of input space is introduced to improve the generalization capability of CMAC-based RL. Conventional epsilon-greedy policy has the shortage of unnecessary randomization. Boltzmann distribution selection is also introduced to the balance of exploration and exploitation. We describe our ideas of reinforcement learning methods and also illustrate with an example the utility of method for learning skilled robot control on line.
This paper presents a kind of kinematics arithmetic of a multi-robot coordination system, facing to manipulation of huge elliptical ship module. This multi-robot system can adjust the position and pose of the elliptical workpiece in 6 DOF by the coordination of multiple 3 DOF robots. Based on the motion strategy, the inverse kinematics arithmetic was given, and also a simplified arithmetic applied to real time control. A numerical example illuminates the feasibility and the precision.
This paper presents a control architecture for robots in dynamic and unstructured environments. It is based on the combination of several parallel behavior modules: reactive behaviors and directive behaviors with path planning and behavior state feedback, which makes behavioral closed loop. A Finite State Automata model is used to describe the activity sequence the robot must follow. Detailed behavior planning including path planning is executed by stages to prevent the computation waste and the sensing function is activated whenever possible. At last, a distributed computational mechanism of multiple DSP devices is developed and functional modules are implemented in the way of multitask on a RTOS platform. The system has an open modular and scalable architecture, and a high performance with a low cost.
This paper describes a novel obstacle avoidance method for mobile robots based on relative coordinates; that is, we describe a method whereby each robot may determine the pose of others relative to itself This method does not require GPS, landmarks, or any kind of environment model. Instead, robots make direct measurements of the relative pose of nearby robots, predict the danger field by the collision cone between the relative velocity of robot with respect to obstacles and the LOS (line-of-sight), and adjust the varieties of robot velocity and direction real time and dynamically in acceleration space. The simulation results verify the efficiency of the method.
Aimed at troublesome to apply SCM (Single Chip Microcomputer) to develop fuzzy controller, authors present a kind of new simplefuzzy controller, which stored output control value from simple fuzzy control querying table into memory directly, and take error and change of error as address. With the help of sequence pulse, stored data is outputted to controlled object through address mapping. The circuits of whole fuzzy controller without CPU is very simple, it has many advantages, such as small volume, low cost, rapid response and so on. Developers of the control system don't need develop any program, only connect drive/executive unit, controlled object and sensor/transducer, its application is very simple. The fuzzy controller can applied to industrial process, means of delivery and robot, especially, it is very fit for home appliances.
A newly developed high-accuracy, low-cost orientation sensor is introduced. It consists of magnetic sensors and accelerometer and can provide accurate and real-time absolute orientation information for autonomous mobile robots. Factors which influnce the accuracy of the sensor are analyzed and compensation techniques are also described. Experimental results are also given.
Snake robots have very strong environmental adaptability. The locomotion and inspection of the robots depend upon their ability of climbing over obstacles and the lifting height. Especially in the rescuing application, higher the robot can lift more information can be obtained. A novel joint mechanism thus has been designed, that behaves 3 degrees of freedom among which 2 degrees of freedom are driven through coupled drive. The snake robot composed of by these joints can get larger moment and larger workspace. In this paper, we present the principle of the joint design that is based on coupled drive, and introduce the lifting method of the snake robot and the effect of maximal joint angle alpha. Through analysis, we know that the number of units that the snake robot possibly lifts is the square of the number of units that the snake-like robot can directly lift. This is also confirmed by a simple example.
Intelligent agent technology has been raised as the primary technology in the intelligent Internet and mobile computing. MAGE, will be introduced in this paper, which is an environment for rapidly developing distributed, heterogeneous multi-agent systems. Agent model, agent architecture, MAGE platforms, comparison between MAGE and other multi-agent framework will be presented in the paper. This paper will illustrate two application systems, such as e-business, parallel Web spider. The MAGE is written in Java and is a powerful tool to construct multi-agent systems for Internet applications.
According to the existing problems of flexible manipulator control, a kind of fuzzy variable structure controller based on the principle of sliding-mode variable structure control is proposed by well considered both the dynamic and static control properties of the system. Fuzzy variable structure is a hybrid controller that uses fuzzy logic to eliminate chattering phenomenon that is inherent to a sliding-mode variable structure control system. Because the designed fuzzy controller in this paper is a single-input and single-output controller, and the corresponding fuzzy control rules are few, so the approach is very simple for real-time implementation. At last, the control method is verified by computer simulations, based on the dynamics model of a two-link flexible manipulator. Simulation results indicate that the control system exhibits perfect control effects on chattering-reducing and trajectory-tracking.
The objective of the paper is to develop a strategy for the navigation of mobile robots in uncertain indoor environment. A modified ART-2 network is put forward to identify the surrounding environment correctly for mobile robot which considers not only the similarity of direction but also magnitude of input vectors in environment sorting. Then a fuzzy controller for mobile robot's navigation in an unknown environment is designed based on the correct environment classification information provided by ART-2 network. In order to demonstrate the effectiveness and real-time ability of the proposed approach, we report a number of simulation results of navigation in an unknown environment.
We develop a practical motion control strategy for a radio-controlled, 4-link and free-swimming biomimetic robot fish that uses a flexible posterior body and an oscillating foil as propulsor. Because motion control of robot fish involves hydrodynamics of the fluid medium and dynamics of the robot, it is hard to establish a mathematic model employing purely analytical methods. The fish's motion control task, based on control performance of the fish, is decomposed into on-line speed control and orientation control. The speed control algorithm is then implemented by using step control, and orientation control is realized by fuzzy logic. Combining with step control and fuzzy control, a point-to-point control algorithm is implemented and applied to the closed-loop experimental system that using a vision-based position sensing subsystem to provide feedback The running experiments confirm the reliability and effectiveness of the presented algorithms.
This contribution attempts to study up on forecasting of crop pests with Genetic Programming (GP), and builds forecasting model automatically and successfully without any expert knowledge, avoiding difficulties and drawbacks of generally used method, such as neural networks and statistical techniques. The intelligence of GP is outstanding. This paper focuses on ameliorating fitness evaluation by using correlation coefficient and parsimony factor to accelerate optimization rate, to simplify the structure of model and to improve the performance of prediction. The simulation example proves the effectiveness of the reformative algorithm. And the application of forecasting wheat stripe rust disease shows that the success ratio of prediction is relatively high. GP is hopeful to become an effective auxiliary method for forecasting crop pests.
The Grid concept has recently emerged as a vision for future network based computing, by enabling seamless integration of computing systems and clusters, data storage, specialized networks and sophisticated analysis and visualization software. Intelligent agents can play an important role in helping achieve the Grid vision. In this paper we have proposed a model for agent-based grid computing from the implementation point of view. Based on MAGE, which is a multi-agent framework, we give a reference implementation of this agent-based grid computing model, which is called AGEGC. We believe that AGEGC will be useful platform for research on agent-based grid computing.
Robot acquiring skill is a process similar to human skill learning. Reinforcement learning (RL) is an on-line actor critic method for a robot to develop its skill. The reinforcement function has become the critical component for its effect of evaluating the action and guiding the learning process. We present an augmented reward function that provides a new way for RL controller to incorporate prior knowledge and experience into the RL controller. Also, the difference form of augmented reward function is considered carefully. The additional reward beyond conventional reward will provide more heuristic information for RL. In this paper, we present a strategy for the task of complex skill learning. Automatic robot shaping policy is to dissolve the complex skill into a hierarchical learning process. The new form of value function is introduced to attain smooth motion switching swiftly. We present a formal, but practical, framework for robot skill learning and also illustrate with an example the utility of method for learning skilled robot control on line.
Since the 3D structure of a protein determines its function, the protein structural identification and comparison system is very important to biologists. In this paper, an intelligent protein 3D structure retrieval system is described. The system is intelligent since it integrates the moment feature extraction technology and the relevant feedback method in Artificial Intelligence (AI). As there is no universal agreement on the similarity of proteins structures, the major advantage of our system compared to other previous systems is that we use the relevance feedback technology to aid the biologists to find the similar protein structures more effectively. The similarity metric formula is improved dynamically by biologists' interaction through relevance feedback. The experimental results show that the proposed approach can capture the biologists' intentions in real-time and obtain good performance in the protein 3D structure retrieval. The ratio of total improvement is about 15.5% on average, which is quite significant compared to the improvements obtained in some previous work.
Since the work of Wolfgang Kohler, the process of "insight" in problem solving has been the subject of considerable investigation. Yet, the neural correlates of "insight" remain unknown. Theoretically, "insight" means the reorientation of one's thinking, including breaking of the unwarranted "fixation" and forming of novel, task-related associations among the old nodes of concepts or cognitive skills. Processes closely related to these aspects have been implicated in the hippocampus. In this research, the neural correlates of "insight" were investigated using Japanese riddles, by imaging the answer presentation and comprehension events, just after participants failed to resolve them. The results of event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) analysis demonstrated that the right hippocampus was critically highlighted and that a wide cerebral cortex was also involved in this "insight" event. To the best of our knowledge, this work is the first neuroirnaging study to have investigated the neural correlates of "insight" in problem solving. (C) 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
This paper describes a small-sized spherical-surface stepping motor and its control algorithm, which has been developed successfully in Yaskawa Electric Corporation, Japan. The motor consists two arc-shape variable-reluctance (VR) linear stepping motors, and is controlled precisely by micro stepping current. Host controller can control up to four stepping motors or servomotors simultaneously or separately. Compared to other spherical-surface motion machines, this motor system has been characterized by compact-structure. light mass, high positioning precision, large moving range, high speed and large torque. The experimental results have shown that this motor and the control system are very effective solutions as important actuators in robots industry (intelligent robot's eyes and limb-joints), astronomical apparatus and many other fields.
Evolution of software challenges multi-agent systems to be adaptive and the adaptation capabilities should be provided at both the agent level and the system level. In this paper, we study the adaptation of multi-agent systems from the system level and describe a formal framework for multi-agent systems with adaptation capabilities. In the framework, agents are indirectly inter-connected via roles and interaction protocols are defined as entities independent of agents and roles. Thus agents, roles, and interaction protocols involved in multi-agent systems need not always adjust their behaviors or specifications to adapt to the changes of system structures and interaction protocols.
At present the complexity of real world application has go beyond the capabilities of current knowledge-based systems. Based on the methodology named "Hall for Workshop of Metasynthetic Engineering (HWME)" proposed by Chinese scientists for very complex problem solving, which is characterized by the integration of human experts group with the computer-based systems, this paper proposes a dynamic organization structure for HWME using the holonic multi-agent systems design paradigm.
Several land cover change detection approaches have been developed such as traditional post-classification cross-tabulation, cross-correlation analysis, neural networks and knowIedge-based expert systems. But the procedures for analyzing remote sensing image have relied upon pixel-based methods. So, these methods are restricted by the spatial resolution of remote sensing image and widely used with moderate resolution image.
An elliptical basis function (EBF) network is proposed in this study for the classification of remotely sensed images. Though similar in structure, the EBF network differs from the well-known radial basis function (RBF) network by incorporating full covariance matrices and uses the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm to estimate the basis functions. Since remotely sensed data often take on mixture-density distributions in the feature space, the proposed network not only possesses the advantage of the RBF mechanism but also utilizes the EM algorithm to compute the maximum likelihood estimates of the mean vectors and covariance matrices of a Gaussian mixture distribution in the training phase. Experimental results show that the EM-based EBF network is faster in training, more accurate, and simpler in structure.
Conventional classification methods cannot recognize the phenomena of "same spectrum with different land matters" so as to degrade classification accuracy. To solve the problem, this paper proposes a new classification method using neural network based on generalized image, where the space information of the image are exploited. Firstly, we combine the original image with its smoothed image to form a binary set called as a "generalized image", which contains the space information of the original image. Secondly, we make use of artificial neural networks (ANN) to train and classify the "generalized image". Finally, we get the classification result of the original image from that of the "generalized image". Experiment results show that the new method is very efficient, and the classification accuracy is improved largely compared with the classic ANN method.
Teamwork is an effective way of cooperative problem solving in dynamic and unpredictable application contexts. The concept of joint intention is the key of teamwork. How various speech acts can be used to form, maintain and dissolve the joint intention is a significant problem need to be investigated. The paper makes an in-depth analysis of the insufficiency of FIPA ACL with which agents to form the required joint intention in teamwork. We distinguish joint-request between delegation-request and extend the FIPA ACL by defining a new joint-request act whose properties are discussed. Based on the defined joint-request, we propose a teamwork protocol, associated with its formal semantic description and demonstrate its application as well. The teamwork protocol presents an interaction pattern that differs from those of existing elementary request protocol, contract-net protocol and auction protocols within FIPA Interaction Protocol Specifications. The proposed protocol can facilitate design of interaction modules in multi-agent teamwork.
This paper exhaustively discusses and compares the performance differences between radial basis probabilistic neural networks (RBPNN) and radial basis function neural networks (RBFNN). It is proved that, the RBPNN is better than the RBFNN, in the following several aspects: the contribution of the hidden center vectors to the outputs of the neural networks, the training and testing speed, the pattern classification capability, and the noises toleration. Finally, two experimental results show that our theoretical analyses are completely correct.
In this paper we presented a survey of current robot sensing technology research. The original aspect of the research is how to cope with sensor data fusion problems in highly dynamic environment. The paper tries to give a comparison between both treated issues: research in the multi-sensor fusion and multiple simple-sensor robots distributed sensing.
Heart disease is one of the main factor causing death in the developed countries. Over several decades, variety of electronic and computer technology have been developed to assist clinical practices for cardiac performance monitoring and heart disease diagnosis. Among these methods, Ballistocardiography (BCG) has an interesting feature that no electrodes are needed to be attached to the body during the measurement. Thus, it is provides a potential application to asses the patients heart condition in the home. In this paper, a comparison is made for two neural networks based BCG signal classification models. One system uses a principal component analysis (PCA) method, and the other a discrete wavelet transform, to reduce the input dimensionality. It is indicated that the combined wavelet transform and neural network has a more reliable performance than the combined PCA and neural network system. Moreover, the wavelet transform requires no prior knowledge of the statistical distribution of data samples and the computation complexity and training time are reduced.
For along time, one has carried on an endless debate for the problem of the origin of cognition. Much of the debate surrounding this comes from the problem of infinite regress. In a discussion on theory of the thought of abstract neural automata (ANA), we have considered thought, resulting from the nonuniqueness of ANA, to be an important stage of all evolutionary Processes of cognition. If thought is considered to be an evolutionary process, we may ask where is the origin of the evolutionary process? In this paper, using ready-made theory, merely for the problem of origin of thought, we, shag offer views of ourselves, which cannot begin to talk about bringing forth new ideas in theory. The view on the theory of ANA about such a problem is that the thought of ANA results from its nonuniqueness, the nonuniqueness results from its uniqueness, the uniqueness originates from its non-existence - "empty", i.e. essential answer having universal sense is that thought of ANA originates from "empty".
This paper describes an autonomous wheeled mobile robot we developed. The robot is used for robotics demonstrations in our lab. The design of the locomotion framework, electrical system, algorithm and software for doorplate seeking and its related agent-based hybrid control architecture of the robot are elaborated here. The demonstration experiment: "Doorplate-seeking method for navigation and global self-localization" is presented. The experiment's results show the good openness, expandability and stability of the platform, which prove the opportunity for further development by the user.
We develop a practical motion control strategy for a radio-controlled, 4-link and free-swimming biomimetic robot fish that uses a flexible posterior body and an oscillating foil as propulsor. Because motion control of robot fish involves hydrodynamics of the fluid environment and dynamics of the robot, it is very difficult to establish a mathematic model employing purely analytical methods. The fish's motion control task, based on control performance of the fish, is decomposed into on-line speed control and orientation control. The speed control algorithm is then implemented by using step control, and orientation control is realized by utilizing fuzzy logic. Combining with step control and fuzzy control, a point-to-point control algorithm is implemented and applied to the closed-loop experimental system that using a vision-based position sensing subsystem to provide feedback. The running experiments confirm the reliability and effectiveness of the presented algorithms.
This paper proposed a partitioning neural root finder (PNRF) to find the minimum modulus (real or complex) roots of an arbitrary polynomial by imposing a minimum m order root moment (RM) into the constrained learning algorithm (CLA), where the constraint "the minimum m order RM" will ensure the minimum modulus root to be obtained. If the PNRF is recursively updated, the ordered roots from minimum modulus to maximum one can be achieved. Simulations show that this partitioning neural root-finding method is indeed able to find the minimum modulus root and the ordered roots of arbitrary polynomials readily and efficiently.
A new theoretical model of Pattern Recognition principles was proposed, which is based on "matter cognition" instead of "matter classification" in traditional statistical Pattern Recognition. This new model is closer to the function of human being, rather than traditional statistical Pattern Recognition using "optimal separating" as its main principle. So the new model of Pattern Recognition is called the Biomimetic Pattern Recognition (BPR)(1). Its mathematical basis is placed on topological analysis of the sample set in the high dimensional feature space. Therefore, it is also called the Topological Pattern Recognition (TPR). The fundamental idea of this model is based on the fact of the continuity in the feature space of any one of the certain kinds of samples. We experimented with the Biomimetic Pattern Recognition (BPR) by using artificial neural networks, which act through covering the high dimensional geometrical distribution of the sample set in the feature space. Onmidirectionally cognitive tests were done on various kinds of animal and vehicle models of rather similar shapes. For the total 8800 tests, the correct recognition rate is 99.87%. The rejection rate is 0.13% and on the condition of zero error rates, the correct rate of BPR was much better than that of RBF-SVM.
In this paper, a genetic algorithm (GA) is introduced into optimizing the radial basis probabilistic neural networks (RBPNN). The encoding method proposed in this paper involves not only the number and the locations of selected hidden centers but also the shape parameter of the Gaussian kernel function. We use the telling-two-spirals-apart problem as an example to validate the genetic algorithm for optimizing the RBPNN. Consequently, we obtain an optimal interval of the shape parameter of the kernel function for this problem except the reduced RBPNN structure (including the optimal number of the hidden centers and their optimal locations). The experimental results show that with the shape parameters in the optimal interval and with the optimized hidden centers the designed network is not only parsimonious but also of better generalization performance.
The auriferous mesothermal lodes and veins occurred in the Jiapigou Goldfield, Jilin Province, Northeast China, are inevitably hosted by shear zones or fractures of varying orientations and magnitudes. Our recent study suggests that the Jiapigou major shear zone (JMSZ) - a regional NW-SE-trending driving structure, played an essential role in the formation and localization of the shear-hosted auriferous mesothermal systems. Regional dextral shearing of the JMSZ controlled the general occurrences and orientations of lodes and veins, and consequently, constrained the development of the internal structures, geometric details and final localization of lodes and veins. Therefore, the development and final localization of shear-hosted gold system can be comprehensively recognized in terms of both the Riedel shear system theory and the effects of the regional prolonged progressive deformation of subhorizontally right-lateral shearing. The lodes and veins belonging to "R-" and "D-shear" would tend to be much more stable along their strike and dip directions than those belonging to "T-fracture" in the Riedel shear system. However, due to the prolonged progressive deformation, the original T-fractures might undergo local strain localization and partitioning and finally were modified into hybrid fractures filled by auriferous quartz veins, as displayed by many typical lodes and veins occurred in the Jiapigou Goldfield. In order to refine predictive exploration modeling, it is important to understand the structural attributes, geometries, and final localization kinematics of ore-hosting shears in a huge shear system as that developed in the Jiapigou Goldfield.
The rough mereology proposed by Polkowski and Skowron is used in complex systems, multi-agent systems, knowledge engineering and knowledge representation. The function M makes the rough mereology more like the fuzzy mereology. A new rough mereology is proposed, in which the rough inclusion is defined completely based on the upper and lower approximations of rough sets. The basic properties of the rough mereology, and applications in the knowledge representation and knowledge engineering are discussed.
This paper deals with the possible benefits of Perceptual Learning in Artificial Intelligence. On the one hand, Perceptual Learning is more and more studied in neurobiology and is now considered as an essential part of any living system. In fact, Perceptual Learning and Cognitive Learning are both necessary for learning and often depends on each other On the other hand, many works in Machine Learning are concerned with "Abstraction" in order to reduce the amount of complexity related to some learning tasks. In the Abstraction framework, Perceptual Learning can be seen as a specific process that learns how to transform the data before the traditional learning task itself takes place. In this paper, we argue that biologically-inspired Perceptual Learning mechanisms could be used to build efficient lowlevel Abstraction operators that deal with real world data.
In this paper a new modular architecture of neural networks is designed to show that any continuous function which defined on a compact set can be approximated by a multilayer perceptrons, when the output layer activation functions are linear, and the hidden layer activation function could be chosen in the conditions of no bounded and no sigmoid. An application in econometrics forecast is proposed and analyzed, where the new function models can be added to the system one by one, so the complex system can be formed easily.
From a scientific perspective explaining how the brain thinks is a big goal. Cognitive informatics studies intelligent behavior from a computational point of view in terms of updated research efforts and progresses of brain science and neuroscience. Cognitive informatics is the interdisciplinary study of cognition. Cognition includes mental states and processes, such as thinking, reasoning, remembering, language understanding and generation, visual and auditory perception. learning, consciousness. emotions, etc. In this paper we will point out basic research topics of learning, memory. thought, language, and neural computing which are active fields related to cognitive informatics.
Natural User Interface is one of the important next generation interactions. Computers are not just the tools of many special people or areas but for most people. Ubiquitous computing(1) makes the world magic and more comfortable. In the design domain, current systems, which need the detail information, cannot conveniently support the conceptual design of the early phrase. Pen and paper are the natural and simple tools to use in our daily life, especially in design domain. Gestures are the useful and natural mode in the interaction of pen -based. In natural UI, gestures can be introduced and used through the similar mode to the existing resources in interaction. But the gestures always are defined beforehand without the users' intention and recognized to represent something in certain applications without being transplanted to others. We provide the gesture description languages (GDL) to try to cite the useful gestures to the applications conveniently. It can be used in terms of the independent control resource such as menus or icons in applications. So we give the idea from two perspectives: one from the application-dependent point of view and the other from the application-independent point of view.
For the traditional method of hyper-plane segmentation, the location of hyper-plane in data space was given by statistical method. In the case of the statistical value of regions is smaller than in the region, the statistical method was not effective. The character of genetic algorithm is global searching optimally. Taken this mathematical advantage the location of Hyper-plane could be located easily. In this paper, EOS/MODIS imagery data is used to test this method. The result is proved that the Genetic Algorithms-Hyperplane is better than MLC method by using same training data.
The linear trajectory is one of major performance for industrial robot. A vision-based robots' linear trajectory measure system is introduced in this paper using a structure light and a special measure track. The three inflexions of the optical strip imaging at the V shape truck are used to compute the pose between the sensor frame and the track frame, then the linear trajectory of robot can be computed. The emphasis of this paper is the image processing. At this paper. the process of the image processing method for this system will be described at first. then the key methods include image segmentation and line fitting will be discussed, at last the experiment results will be given.
The multi-layers feedforward neural network is used for inversion of material constants of fluid-saturated porous media. The direct analysis of fluid-saturated porous media is carried out with the boundary element method. The dynamic displacement responses obtained from direct analysis for prescribed material parameters constitute the sample sets training neural network. By virtue of the effective L-M training algorithm and the Tikhonov regularization method as well as the GCV method for an appropriate selection of regularization parameter, the inverse mapping from dynamic displacement responses to material constants is performed. Numerical examples demonstrate the validity of the neural network method.
Computational intelligence is the computational simulation of the bio-intelligence, which includes artificial neural networks, fuzzy systems and evolutionary computations. This article summarizes the state of the art in the field of simulated modeling of vibration systems using methods of computational intelligence, based on some relevant subjects and the authors' own research work. First, contributions to the applications of computational intelligence to the identification of nonlinear characteristics of packaging are reviewed. Subsequently, applications of the newly developed training algorithms for feedforward neural networks to the identification of restoring forces in multi-degree-of-freedom nonlinear systems are discussed. Finally, the neural-network-based method of model reduction for the dynamic simulation of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) using generalized Hebbian algorithm (GHA) and robust GHA is outlined. The prospects of the simulated modeling of vibration systems using techniques of computational intelligence are also indicated.
Proteins are generally classified into the following 12 subcellular locations: 1) chloroplast, 2) cytoplasm, 3) cytoskeleton, 4) endoplasmic reticulum, 5) extracellular, 6) Golgi apparatus, 7) lysosome, 8) mitochondria, 9) nucleus, 10) peroxisome, 11) plasma membrane, and 12) vacuole. Because the function of a protein is closely correlated with its subcellular location, with the rapid increase in new protein sequences entering into databanks, it is vitally important for both basic research and pharmaceutical industry to establish a high throughput tool for predicting protein subcellular location. In this paper, a new concept, the so-called "functional domain composition" is introduced. Based on the novel concept, the representation for a protein can be defined as a vector in a high-dimensional space, where each of the clustered functional domains derived from the protein universe serves as a vector base. With such a novel representation for a protein, the support vector machine (SVM) algorithm is introduced for predicting protein subcellular location. High success rates are obtained by the self-consistency test, jackknife test, and independent dataset test, respectively. The current approach not only can play an important complementary role to the powerful covariant discriminant algorithm based on the pseudo amino acid composition representation (Chou, K. C. (2001) Proteins Struct. Funct. GeneL 43, 246-255; Correction (2001) Proteins Struct. Funct Genet. 44, 60), but also may greatly stimulate the development of this area.
Nucleosides in human urine and serum have frequently been studied as a possible biomedical marker for cancer, acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and the whole-body turnover of RNAs. Fifteen normal and modified nucleosides were determined in 69 urine and 42 serum samples using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Artificial neural networks have been used as a powerful pattern recognition tool to distinguish cancer patients from healthy persons. The recognition rate for the training set reached 100%. In the validating set, 95.8 and 92.9% of people were correctly classified into cancer patients and healthy persons when urine and serum were used as the sample for measuring the nucleosides. The results show that the artificial neural network technique is better than principal component analysis for the classification of healthy persons and cancer patients based on nucleoside data. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
A stable discrete time adaptive control approach using dynamic neural networks (DNNs) is developed in this paper for the trajectory tracking of a robotic manipulator with unknown nonlinear dynamics. By using dynamic inversion constructed by a DNN, the assumption under which the system state should be on a compact set can be removed. This assumption is usually required in neuro-adaptive control. The NN-based variable structure control is designed to guarantee the stability and improve the dynamic performance of the closed-loop system. The proposed control scheme ensures the global stability and desired tracking as well. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
Five variables for phenol derivatives were calculated by molecular projection in three-dimensional space which were combined with eight quantum-chemical parameters and three Am indices. These variables were selected by using leaps-and-bounds regression analysis. Multiple linear regression analysis and artificial neural networks' were performed, and the results obtained by using. artificial neural networks are superior than that obtained by using multiple linear regression.
To simplify the abstraction of descriptors, for the correlation analysis of the stability constants of gadolinium(III) complexes and their ligand structures, aiming at gadolinium(III) complexes, we only considered the ligands and ignored the common parts of the structures, i.e., the metal ions. Quantum-chemical descriptors and topological indices were calculated to describe the structures of the ligands. Multiple regression analysis and neural networks were applied to construct the models between the ligands and the stability constants of gadolinium(III) complexes and satisfactory results were obtained.
In this brief, we present a proof of the existence of a fixed point and a generalized sufficient condition that guarantees the stability of it in discrete-time neural networks by using the Lyapunov function method. We also show that for both symmetric and asymmetric connections, the unique attractor is a fixed point when several conditions are satisfied. And this is an extended result of Chen and Aihara. In particular, we further study the stability of equilibrium in discrete-time neural networks with the connection weight matrix in form of interval matrix. Finally, several examples are shown to illustrate and reinforce our-theory.
Previously, researchers raised the accuracy for a robot's hand to track a specified path in Cartesian space mainly through increasing the number of knots on the path and the number of the path's segments, which results in the heavier online computational burden for the robot controller. Aiming at. overcoming this drawback, the authors propose a new kind of real-time accurate hand path tracking and joint trajectory planning method. Through selecting some extra knots on the specified hand path by a certain rule and introducing a sinusoidal function to the joint displacement equation of each segment, this method can greatly raise the path tracking accuracy of robot's hand and does not change the number of the path's segments. It also does not increase markedly the computational burden of robot controller. The result of simulation indicates that this method is very effective, and has important value in increasing the application of industrial robots.
The online gradient method has been widely used as a learning algorithm for neural networks. We establish a deterministic convergence of online gradient methods for the training of a class of nonlinear feedforward neural networks when the training examples are linearly independent. We choose the learning rate eta to be a constant during the training procedure. The monotonicity of the error function in the iteration is proved. A criterion for choosing the learning rate eta is also provided to guarantee the convergence. Under certain conditions similar to those for the classical gradient methods, an optimal convergence rate for our online gradient methods is proved. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
In this article, generalized torsion angles of derivatives of 1-[(2-hydroxyethoxy)methy1]-6(phenylthio)thymine(HEPT) were calculated, which include abundant three dimensional information of molecules. Molecular similarity matrix was built based on the calculated generalized torsion angles. These similarities were taken as the new variables, and the new variables were selected by using Leaps-and-Bounds regression analysis. Multiple regression analysis and neural networks were performed, and the satisfactory results were achieved by using the neural networks.
We investigate the differences among several definitions of the snap-back-repeller, which is always regarded as an inducement to produce chaos in nonlinear dynamical system. By analyzing the norms in different senses and the illustrative examples, we clarify why a snap-back-repeller in the neighborhood of the fixed point, where all eigenvalues of the corresponding variable Jacobian Matrix are absolutely larger than I in norm, might not imply chaos. Furthermore, we theoretically prove the existence of chaos in a discrete neural networks model in the sense of Marotto with some parameters of the systems entering some regions. And the following numerical simulations and corresponding calculation, as concrete examples, reinforce our theoretical proof.
This paper aims to bring together most of the key issues involved in research in novel systems in telegeoprocessing. Telegeoprocessing can be defined as a new discipline based on real-time spatial databases updated regularly by means of telecommunications systems in order to support problem solving and decision-making at any time and any place. It involves the integration of remote sensing, Geographic Information Systems (GIS), Global Positioning System (GPS) and telecommunications. Telegeoprocessing can be categorized as WebGIS (an integration of Internet and GIS), Mobile Geoprocessing (Wireless Mappingan integration of mobile computing and GIS) and TeleGIS (an integration of GIS and other telecommunication techniques). This paper presents a comprehensive introduction to the problems encountered in telegeoprocessing engineering and the major technologies and standards related to designing an integrated, fully functional telegeoprocessing system based on the latest multimedia and telecommunication technologies. Overall attention will be given to systems based on remote sensing and GPS and all other technologies for sending data from sensors to GIS systems by means of multimedia telecommunications. Finally, we describe our pilot telegeoprocessing programme, which is currently being carried out in the Laboratory of Remote Sensing Information Sciences, Institute of Remote Sensing Applications, Chinese Academy of Science, China.
In this research. we found CoMFA alone could not obtain sufficiently a strong equation to allow confident prediction for aminobenzenes. When some other parameter. such as heat of molecular formation of the compounds, was introduced into the CoMFA model, the results Were improved greatly. It gives us a hint that a better description for molecular structures will yield a better prediction model, and this hint challenged us to look for another method-the projection areas of molecules in 3D space for 3D-QSAR. It is surprising that much better results than that obtained by using CoMFA Were achieved. Besides the CoMFA analysis. multiregression analysis and neural network methods for building the models were used in this paper.
We study the critical features of a coupling parameter in the synchronization of neural networks with diluted synapses. Based on simulations, an exponential decay form is observed in the extreme case of global coupling among subsystems and full connection in each network: there exists a maximum and a minimum of the critical coupling intensity for synchronization in this spatially extended system. For partial coupling, we present the primary result about the critical coupling fraction for various linking degrees of the networks.
A new fuzzy controller with 6 input items and I output item for stabilizing a parallel-type double inverted pendulum system is presented based on the single input rule modules (SIRMs) dynamically connected fuzzy inference model. Each input item is assigned with a SIRM and a dynamic importance degree. The SIRMs and the dynamic importance degrees are designed such that the angular control of the longer pendulum takes the highest priority over the angular control of the shorter pendulum and the position control of the cart when the angle of the longer pendulum is big. By using the SIRMs and the dynamic importance degrees, the priority orders of the three controls are automatically adjusted according to control situations. The proposed fuzzy controller has a simple and intuitively understandable structure, and executes the three controls entirely in parallel. Simulation results show that the proposed fuzzy controller can stabilize completely a parallel-type double inverted pendulum system within 10.0 s for a wide range of the initial angles of the two pendulums. This is the first result for a fuzzy controller to achieve successfully complete stabilization control of a parallel-type double inverted pendulum system. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we apply a new machine learning method which is called support vector machine to approach the prediction of protein structural class. The support vector machine method is performed based on the database derived from SCOP which is based upon domains of known structure and the evolutionary relationships and the principles that govern their 3D structure. As a result, high rates of both self-consistency and jackknife test are obtained. This indicates that the structural class of a protein inconsiderably correlated with its amino acid composition, and the support vector machine can be referred as a powerful computational tool for predicting the structural classes of proteins. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
Partner selection is an active research topic in agile manufacturing and supply chain management. In this paper, the problem is described by a 0-1 integer programming with non-analytical objective function. Then, the solution space is reduced by defining the inefficient candidate. By using the fuzzy rule quantification method, a fuzzy logic based decision making approach for the project scheduling is proposed. We then develop a fuzzy decision embedded genetic algorithm. We compare the algorithm with tranditional methods. The results show that the suggested approach can quickly achieve optimal solution for large size problems with high probability. The approach was applied to the partner selection problem of a coal fire power station construction project. The satisfactory results have been achieved.
In this paper, we present a data-mining framework in audio-visual interaction, and apply it to speech driven lip motion facial animation system. First, an unsupervised cluster algorithm is proposed to build a set of clusters in which each has similar configurations. Then statistical visual model is constructed by specifying all the possible cluster trajectories. The audio is analyzed with regard to learned clusters of facial gesture. For every cluster, two neural networks are trained to build mapping from audio features to cluster label and velocity respectively. Given a new vocal track, the statistical visual model and neural networks are combined together to analyze control audio, resulting in a most Likely facial state sequence. The proposed method not only automatically incorporates vocal and facial dynamics such as co-articulation, but also is characterized with easy training, more robust, extensible and interpretable. Two approaches for evaluation test are also proposed. The performance of our system shows that the proposed learning algorithm is suitable, which greatly improves the realism of face animation during speech.
This paper makes a profound analysis on radial basis probabilistic neural networks (RBPNN) from the viewpoint of linear algebra. Specifically, the transformation properties and internal representations of the RBPNN's are investigated in alliance with the properties of the input samples so that ones can understand and grasp the mechanisms for pattern classification and function approximation of the RBPNN's. In addition, we make an analysis on the convergent behaviours of the output class weight vectors of the RBPNN's, which can be showed to be orthogonal as well. Finally, one example for classifying five kinds of different distribution patterns are given to further support our understandings and claims.
This paper discusses using two kinds of outer-supervised learning algorithms, i.e., the constrained learning algorithm and recursive least squares algorithm, for. finding the inversion of arbitrary nonsingular matrix (including the complex ones). We present the details of two kinds of outer-supervised learning algorithms respectively in this paper, and how to use them based on linear feedforward neural networks for finding the inversion of arbitrary nonsingular matrix. Finally, to compare the corresponding performances for two learning methods, several simulation results are reported and discussed.
The Back propagation Neural Network (BPNN) has been researched and applied so broadly, to solve the problem that the training time of Back propagation network can be excessive, the structure and training algorithm of priority ordered BP neural networks are proposed. The neurons of its output layer have priority ordered interconnections, during the training course, the training data tailed off gradually, so the algorithm may converge rapidly because of the decrease of the complexity of performance function. Compared with the conventional BPNN, the total iterative epochs of priority ordered BPNN are far lower and the performance function can converge more rapidly in a text-independent speaker identification task.
This paper proposes using recursive root moment method (RRMM) based on feedforward neural networks (FNN) trained by constrained learning algorithm (CLA) to find the roots of polynomials, which is of fewer computational complexity than the root moment method (RMM) and the method using the relations between the roots and the coefficients (RRC) of polynomials. As a result, the RRMM is of faster training speed and higher accuracy than the latter two methods. The experimental results verify, our claims.
This paper makes further discussions on the constrained learning algorithms (CLA) proposed by Perantonis et al, which is an efficient constrained back propagation (BP) algorithm formed by imposing the constraint conditions (most of which are from the a priori information of the involved problems) implicit in the problems on the conventional BP algorithm. In addition, for the problem of applying CLA's to finding the roots of polynomials based on the relation between the roots and the coefficients of polynomials, we discuss the computation complexities for different number of constrained conditions. Finally, some computer simulation results are given to support our claims.
A genetic algorithm(GA)-based two-stage fuzzy controller is proposed for overhead crane. In this controller, two fuzzy sub-controllers are designed to respectively control the swing and displacement. A real-valued GA is used twice in different stages to adjust the parameters of the controllers to ensure the positioning precision, minimize transporting time and swing angle, and damp swing,angle at target position. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach.
Ching-chang Wong et. al(1999) proposed a novel cluster method to make training sample data stepwise converge to cluster centers regardless of the predetermination of center number. This paper improves the novel cluster method, and proves its convergence by using Brouwer Fixed Point Theorem. Based on the result of the novel cluster method, one first order TSK fuzzy neural network is established and hybrid algorithm is implemented to tune network parameters. Finally, simulation results are given to demonstrate the effectiveness of this novel cluster method in fuzzy neural networks.
A new data fusion method to extract feathers from the local environment for mobile robot's navigation has been developed and implemented. This method, named the obstacle group, compresses data in a series of levels in order to reduce data quantity for communication between modules in distributed single-robot system, or between all the robots and the central station in multi-robot system. This method based on gird map and active window has strong adaptability and real-time in crowded environment. Enormous experiments. are. carried out to cope with dynamic environments. Experimental results demonstrated that robot can successfully avoid collision and plan path by using this method in perception of robot.
To meet the ever-increasing requirement of multi-task uncertainly concurring, dynamic uncertainty of tasks and system loads in open hybrid real-time systems, the paper presents a QoS model based open adaptive hybrid soft real-time systems scheduling framework. To adapt to the uncertainties of open hybrid real-time systems, we introduce fast fuzzy control mechanism to control the scheduling errors of QoS objects, so as to statistically guarantee that the accepted tasks of any QoS object can complete before their deadline. Simulation results illustrate that the scheduling framework can adapt the dynamic uncertainty of system objects, loads and tasks, and statistically guarantee the multi-constraints. It is an intelligent adaptive scheduling framework that applies to hybrid soft real-time systems.
In this paper, authors present a kind of fuzzy torque control system for induction motor, and apply error of stator flux, error of motor electromagnetic torque and positional angle of flux as fuzzy variable, voltage vector of inverter was selected through fuzzy decision. In this way, It improves system response speed during the start-up and a abrupt change in command torque. The simulation results show that fuzzy torque control system meet demand better for fast response.
This paper presents a document Clustering algorithm based on Swarm Intelligence and k-Means: CSIM. First, a document clustering algorithm based on swarm intelligence is employed. It is derived from a basic model interpreting ant colony organization of cemeteries. Swarm intelligence for flexibility, self-organization and robustness has been applied in a variety of areas. Taking advantage of these traits, good initial clusters are obtained at first phase in CSIM. Then, we combine it with the classical k-means clustering method by using the clusters as initial centers. CSIM inherits the prominent properties of both swarm intelligence and k-means. It also offsets the weakness of those two techniques. Experimental results show the good performance of the hybrid document clustering algorithm.
In this paper, an artificial neural network model is adopted to study the glass transition temperature of polymers. In our artificial neural networks, the input nodes are the characteristic ratio C-infinity, the average molecular weight M-e between entanglement points and the molecular weight M-mon of repeating unit. The output node is the glass transition temperature T-g, and the number of the hidden layer is 6. We found that the artificial neural network simulations are accurate in predicting the outcome for polymers for which it is not trained. The maximum relative error for predicting of the glass transition temperature is 3.47%, and the overall average error is only 2.27%. Artificial neural networks may provide some new ideas to investigate other properties of the polymers.
Problem Solving Environment (PSE) is a new and diverse area of research, and till now it resists simple universally accepted definitions. In brief, PSE is a complete and integrated computing environment in which new application can be constructed, compiled and executed. This paper describes the concept and software architecture of a PSE for Enterprise computing (E-PSE). The E-PSE is developed to provide transparent access to heterogeneous distributed computing resources in one enterprise, and is to improve research productivity by making it easier to construct, compile and run computer applications so that the enterprise can achieve more advanced economic benefit as soon as possible. The E-PSE includes four modules: Visual Enterprise Modeling System, Visual Application Construction Environment, Application Wrapping & Integrating Toot and Application Runtime Environment. The application of the E-PSE in an oil-refining enterprise is presented. Related work about PSE is also described.
Ontology is used widely as an analytical tool in many domains in recent years, and adopted as a fundamental basis for knowledge acquisition and sharing. However, it becomes difficult for knowledge engineers to share a large ontology base created by many engineers from different domains, and thus ontologies may not genuinely support knowledge engineers in knowledge acquisition and analysis. In order to promote multi-domain ontology sharing and to facilitate knowledge acquisition and analysis, we have implemented an ontology and knowledge engineering environment (OKEE) for multi-domain ontology development and knowledge acquisition. OKEE provides a list of functionalities for ontology design and for knowledge acquisition.
Single input rule modules (SIRMs) dynamically connected fuzzy inference model is proposed for plural input fuzzy control. For each input item, a SIRM is constructed and a dynamic importance degree is defined. The dynamic importance degree consists of a base value insuring the role of the input item through a control process, and a dynamic value changing with control situations to adjust the dynamic importance degree. Each dynamic value can be easily tuned based on the local information of current state. The model output is obtained by summarizing the products of the dynamic importance degree and the fuzzy inference result of each SIRM. The controller constructing method for constant value control systems is given, and constant value controls of typical first- and second-order lag plants are tested. The simulation results show that by using the proposed mode, the reaching time can be reduced by more than 15% without any steady-state error, overshoot, or vibration compared with the SIRMs fixed importance degree connected fuzzy inference model. The proposed model is further successfully applied to stabilization control of an inverted pendulum system including the position control of the cart. (C) 2002 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Kernel technique supplies a systematic and principled approach to training learning machines and the good generalization performance achieved can be readily justified using statistical learning theory. In this paper, we convert classification problem into a set cover one, present a kernel covering algorithm which combines kernel technique with covering approach. This algorithm is constructive, and bypasses the problems of convergence and convergence speed. Analyzing the statistical properties of the covering classifier, we offer a bound of the actual risk. In virtue of the variety of kernels,, a general design principle for feed-forward neural networks is drawn.
Because the neuro-fuzzy system (NFS) combines the learning capability of neural network and the decision structure of fuzzy inference systems, it is very useful in modeling, control, and forecasting behaviors of complex systems such as traffic systems. This paper proposes a form of neuro-fuzzy systems (NFS) and applies it to forecast short-term traffic flows. Different learning algorithms for the NFS have been tested and evaluated using actual traffic data collected from the Loop 3 Freeway in Beijing, China. These testing results indicate that the NFS based approach Is an effective method for the short-tern traffic flow forecasting. To demonstrate the advantage of the proposed NFS approach, a comparison with a typical neural network based approach has been made.
A novel method for the optimization of pH value and composition of mobile phase in HPLC using artificial neural networks and uniform design is proposed. As the first step. seven initial experiments were arranged and run according to uniform design. Then the retention behavior of the solutes is modeled using back-propagation neural networks. A trial method is used to ensure the predicting capability of neural networks. Finally, the optimal separation conditions can be found according to a global resolution function. The effectiveness of this method is validated by optimization of separation conditions for both basic and acidic samples.
Believes that in the view of philosophy, a concept is the highest form of activity of human brain. This paper demonstrates Abstract Neural Automata and a more perfect brain's models that have the ability of transition of concept-ability of thought. The transition of the concept of Abstract Neural automata results from the non-uniqueness of its limit Gibbs measure-variability of the structure of Abstract Neural Automata.
This paper proposes a novel method for improving the classification capability of radial basis probabilistic neural network classifiers. That is, for each pattern class, over one output node, also called class node, are employed to express corresponding input pattern features compared with previous one output node for one pattern class, which will cause the classification reliability and generalization capability to be improved. The experimental results about classifying the parity 3 problem show that such an enhanced classifier network is indeed capable of improving the generalization capability.
This paper investigates the linear separability in feature space from Tietze extension theorem and function approximation theory, and kernel technique is motivated theoretically. Moreover, two kernel-based algorithms are presented. One of them is a general learning algorithm for feed-forward neural networks, and they can solve large-scale classification problems.
In this paper, we first introduce the working principle of a pacemaker neuron type integrate-and-fire circuit having two states with a periodic pulse-train input, which is described by a standard impulsive differential equation and whose dynamics are always applied to simulate the evolution of the pulse-coupled neural networks. Furthermore, by applying the Marotto theorem, we theoretically prove that the circuit doesn't exhibit chaotic dynamics with some little period of the pulse-train input but it appears chaotic phenomenon with the increase of the period. And the following numerical simulations and corresponding calculation, as illustrative examples, reinforce our theoretical proof and theory. Beside, we investigate the complex structure in a discrete neural network model, and we also theoretically prove that it exhibits chaotic phenomenon in the sense of Marotto.
In this paper, the suitable mathematics models in fuzzy circumstances are built and analyzed by means of the fuzzy optimal tree algorithm. At the same time, this paper addresses the problem under two different circumstances by presenting the concrete solving scheme and novel decision means.
A new fuzzy controller for anti-swing and positioning control of an overhead traveling crane is proposed based on the SIRMs (Single Input Rule Modules) dynamically connected fuzzy inference model. The trolley position and velocity, the rope swing angle and angular velocity are selected as input items, and the trolley acceleration as output item. With a simple structure, the controller can autonomously adjust the influence of each input item. The control system is further proved to be asymptotically stable near destination. Control simulation results show that the controller is robust to different rope lengths and has generalization ability for different initial positions. Compared with linear state feedback controller, the fuzzy controller can drive the crane to destination in short time with small swing angle.
Recurrent neural networks based on gradient descent algorithms have been widely used in computation of various optimization and control problems. With the aid of a nonlinear mechanism, an improved method for accelerating the neural computation of optimization processes was proposed in the paper. We analyze its convergence property and compare it with other methods. Finally, we give simulation results to show its effectiveness for high-speed computation.
In accordance with the problem of fuzzy reasoning in the longer reasoning chaining of expert systems, the fuzzy reasoning algorithm of characteristic expansion based on triple I method was proposed in this paper. The fuzzy reasoning model, a new set of algorithms applied to imprecise spreading in expert systems, was deducted. Besides, this model just accorded with the general model of imprecise reasoning of expert systems in abstract framework and was widely available. The barrier of fuzzy reasoning in expert systems was broken down theoretically.
According to multi-agent system theory and characteristics of the structural distribution of hyper-redundant modular manipulator, we establish the distributed control system for hyper-redundant modular manipulator. Each joint module is considered as an intelligent agent. Because the relations among agents are tightly coupled and each agent has no local subtask, agents need to coordinate their actions constantly in order to complete their tasks. We present a new negotiation and cooperation control algorithm. The proposed method is applied to a 2-dimension hyper-redundant modular manipulator with rotational joints. The effectiveness of the method are ascertained by computer simulations.
In order to achieve formation control, individual robot adopts motor schema-based architecture and four primitive behaviors called move-to-goal, keep-formation, avoid-static-obstacle and avoid-robot behaviors are introduced. The behavioral decision to direct the movement of robot is made by the combination of primitive behaviors. Genetic algorithm is used in this paper to solve the problem of selecting control parameters that underlie the behaviors because of its difficulty. The simulation results testify the feasibility of the proposed approach.
Base isolation of structure subjected to seismic excitation has been shown to be successful and widely implemented in reducing the forces transmitted to the superstructure. This paper takes into consideration a, two-degree-of- freedom model of a base isolated building using controllable semi-active damper, i.e., magnetorheological fluid damper. In this study fuzzy-neural network strategy is employed for the seismic isolation. Nonlinear control laws would yield better reduction of nature damages due to the nonlinear damper and non-deterministic earthquake. The strategy combining fuzzy logic and neural network provide a reasonable scheme for the complex system. Using the new strategy is able to achieve a notable decrease in absolute acceleration and interstory drift.
The use of polymers and polymer composites in various tribological situations has become state of the art. Nevertheless, new developments are still under way to explore new fields of application for these materials and to tailor their properties for more extreme loading conditions. Some of these developments can be followed when searching through the 56 references given at the end of this review. The present overview describes, in particular. some of the authors' approaches in designing polymeric composites in order to operate under low friction and low wear against steel counterparts. Special emphasis is focused on thermoplastics and thermosets reinforced with special fillers (including nanoparticles). An attempt is made to predict their wear properties and to carry out systematic parameters studies by the use of artificial neural networks. Further information will be given on the fibre orientation dependence of wear of continuous carbon fibre-polymer matrix composites, and on attempts to predict their load-bearing capacity and related wear mechanisms by the use of finite elements. In addition, some new steps towards the development of functionally graded tribomaterials are illustrated.
Ubiquitous computing [1] provides the new research challenges for the next generation interactions. Natural User Interface is one of the important aspects. Pen and paper are the natural and simple tools to use in our daily life, which can fit for the imprecise and flexible design mode in conceptual design. Gestures are the useful and natural mode in the pen-based interaction which can be introduced and used through the similar mode to the existing resources in interaction. Inherent problems exist with collaborative conceptual design because the simultaneous group interaction required for users to smoothly and effectively work together in the same virtual space. In this paper, we provide solutions to these problems by devising a fast and direct gesture-based user interface, a set of visual effects that better enable a user's awareness of the operations done by other participants, and a set of tools for enhancing visual communication between participants. A gesture description language (GDL) is given to provide the useful gestures to the applications conveniently.
A recurrent neural network for dynamical hierarchical optimization of nonlinear discrete large-scale systems is presented. The proposed neural network consists of hierarchically structured sub-networks: one coordination sub-network at the upper level and several local optimization sub-networks at the lower level. In particular, the coordination sub-network and the local optimization sub-networks work simultaneously. This feature makes the proposed method outperform in computational efficiency the conventional iterative algorithms where there usually exists an alternately waiting time during the coordination and local optimization processes. Moreover, the state equations of the subsystems of the large-scale system are imbedded into their corresponding local optimization sub-networks. This imbedding technique not only overcomes the difficulty in treating the constraints imposed by the state equations, but also leads to significant reduction in the network size. We present stability analysis to prove that the neural network is asymptotically stable and this stable state corresponds to the optimal solution to the original optimal control problem. Finally, we illustrate the performance of the proposed method by an example. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
In chemistry for chemical analysis of a multi-component sample or quantitative structure-activity/property relationship (QSAR/QSPR) studies, variable selection is a key step. In this study, comparisons between different methods were performed. These methods include three classical methods such as forward selection, backward elimination and stepwise regression; orthogonal descriptors; leaps-and-bounds regression and genetic algorithm. Thirty-five nitrobenzenes were taken as the data set. From these structures quantum chemical parameters, topological indices and indicator variable were extracted as the descriptors for the comparisons of variable selections. The interesting results have been obtained. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
The researches on the combination of wavelet analysis and neural networks have attracted much attention in recent years. Two combination types, the ancillary type and the embedded type, are described and applied to predict quantitatively the concentration of mono-component in oscillographic chronopotentiometry. The experimental results of the prediction show that the ancillary type has higher convergence rate and prediction accuracy, but the embedded type is more automatic. Compared to standard back propagation neural network, two types are better than artificial neural network.
We present a search for electroweak production of single top quarks in approximate to 90 pb(-1) of data collected with the D(null set) detector at the Fermilab Tevatron collider. Using arrays of neural networks to separate signals from backgrounds, we set upper limits on the cross sections of 17 pb for the s-channel process p (p) over bar --> tb + X, and 22 pb for the t-channel process p (p) over bar --> tqb + X, both at the 95% confidence level. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
A function-based evaluation approach is proposed for a systematic study of fuzzy proportional-integral-derivative (PID)-like controllers. This approach is applied for deriving process-independent design guidelines from addressing two issues: simplicity and nonlinearity. To examine the simplicity of fuzzy PID controllers, we conclude that direct-action controllers exhibit simpler design properties than gain-scheduling controllers. Then, we evaluate the inference structures of direct-action controllers in five criteria: control-action composition, input coupling, gain dependency, gain-role change, and rule/parameter growth. Three types of fuzzy PID controllers, using one-, two- and three-input inference structures, are analyzed. The results, according to the criteria, demonstrate some shortcomings in the Mamdani's two-input controllers. For keeping the simplicity feature like a linear PID controller, a one-input fuzzy PID controller with "one-to-three" mapping inference engine is recommended. We discuss three evaluation approaches in nonlinear approximation study: function-estimation-based, generalization-capability-based and nonlinearity-variation-based approximations. The present study focuses on the last approach. A nonlinearity evaluation is then performed for several one-input fuzzy PID controllers based on two measures: nonlinearity variation index (NVI) and linearity approximation index (LAI). Using these quantitative indices, one can make a reasonable selection of fuzzy reasoning mechanisms and membership functions without requiring any process information. From the study we observed that the Zadeh-Mamdani's "max-min-gravity" (MMG) scheme produces the highest score in terms of nonlinearity variations, which is superior to other schemes, such as Mizumoto's "product-sum-gravity" (PSG) and "Takagi-Sugeno-Kang" (TSK) schemes.
A new fuzzy controller for stabilizing series-type double inverted pendulum systems is proposed based on the SIRMs (Single Input Rule Modules) dynamically connected fuzzy inference model. The controller deals with six input items. Each input item is provided with a SIRM and a dynamic importance degree (DID). The SIRM and the DID are set up such that the angular control of the upper pendulum takes the highest priority order over the angular control of the lower pendulum and the position control of the cart when the relative angle of the upper pendulum is big. By using the SIRMs and the DIDs, the control priority orders are automatically adjusted according to control situations. Simulation results show that the controller stabilizes series-type double inverted pendulum systems of different parameter values in about 10.0 s for a wide range of the initial angles. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
By analogue of (Chen & Aihara, 1995, 1997, 1999] we theoretically investigate the topologically chaotic structure, attracting set and global searching ability of discrete-time recurrent neural networks with the form of
In this paper, a new type of neural network called recurrent fuzzy neural network (RFNN) is proposed to model the fuzzy dynamical systems (FDS). FDS is considered as an order system. The network developed in this paper is based on recurrent neural networks (RNN) to capture the dynamical properties of FDS. The training algorithm is derived based on the tool of order derivative. An example is given to demonstrate the validity of the approach. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
In this study, an integrated knowledge-based system (KBS) for the hilly, sandy grassland ecosystems was developed. The system is a component of the Inner Mongolia Grassland Ecosystem Research Information Systems (IMGERIS). IMGERIS is an important subsystem of Chinese Ecological Research Network (CERN). The system was designed to manage land use, planting species/variety, and optimal coverage of plants. The system integrated a KBS for ecosystem with a model system that includes theoretical models of soil water dynamics. The KBS in the system was coded in Prolog and the model system for soil water dynamics was coded in C. The model system was integrated with the KBS. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
It is difficult to allocate the freight cars and to determine how to load the several varieties of goods into them. In order to improve efficiency, a knowledge-based system (KBS) is developed and integrated into the existing railway information system. This paper introduces the development of the system and the framework in which the KBS are integrated into the existing system environments. Under the framework, the combination of logic programming technology and database technology provides us with a practical way to solve the problems in many existing information systems. Meanwhile, developing the KBS as a distributed application benefits both the organization and users. The existing centralized database management system was maintained, and the security and the control of the database were ensured. Users can obtain the performance of a workstation with the transparency of data location in a user-friendly environment. At last, the implementation of the KBS for railway freight loading is discussed. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we present an investigation of how partner selection problems may be optimized by the use of a precedence network of subprojects. At the start, the problem is described by a model with the subscript-type of variables and nonanalytical objective function. It cannot be solved by general mathematical programming methods. By using the fuzzy rule quantification method, a fuzzy logic based decision making approach for the project scheduling is proposed. We then develop a fuzzy decision embedded heuristic genetic algorithm (GA/FD) to find the solution for partner selection. The approach was demonstrated by the use of an experimental example drawn from a coal fire power station construction project. The results show us that the suggested approach is possible to quickly achieve optimal solution for large size problems.
Finding an optimal network size is one of the major concerns when building a neural network. In using the local extended Kalman filter (EKF) algorithm, we propose an efficient approach that combines EKF training and pruning as a whole. In particular, the covariance matrix obtained along with the local EKF training can be utilized to indicate the importance of the network weights. As a result, the network size can be determined adaptively to keep pace with the changes in input characteristics. The effectiveness of this algorithm is demonstrated on generalized XOR logic function and handwritten digit recognition.
The expanded job-shop scheduling problem (EJSSP) is a practical production scheduling problem with processing constraints that are more restrictive and a scheduling objective that is more general than those of the standard job-shop scheduling problem (JSSP). A hybrid approach involving neural networks and genetic algorithm (GA) is presented to solve the problem in this paper. The GA is used for optimization of sequence and a neural network (NN) is used for optimization of operation start times with a fixed sequence.
Fuzzy PID tuning requires two stages of tuning; low level tuning followed by high level tuning. At the higher level, a nonlinear tuning is performed to determine the nonlinear characteristics of the fuzzy output. At the lower level, a linear tuning is performed to determine the linear characteristics of the fuzzy output for achieving overall performance of fuzzy control. First, different fuzzy systems are defined and then simplified for two-point control. Non-linearity tuning diagrams are constructed for fuzzy systems in order to perform high level tuning. The linear tuning parameters are deduced from the conventional PID tuning knowledge. Using the tuning diagrams, high level tuning heuristics are developed, Finally, different applications are demonstrated to show the validity of the proposed tuning method.
Using the data collected with the L3 detector at LEP during 1992-1995 run at the Z(o) peak, corresponding to an integrated luminosity of 92.63 pb(-1), the topological and hadronic tau decay branching fractions are measured. Photon conversion, fake photon and backlash tracks are studied and rejected in the analysis. The decay channels are identified using a set of neural networks. The topological tau decay branching fractions are B(tau --> 1-prong) = 85.14 +/- 0.27 +/- 0.17%, B(tau --> 3-prong) = 14.63 +/- 0.13 +/- 0.10% and B(tau --> 5-prong) = 0.23 +/- 0.01 +/- 0.05%. The branching fractions of tau hadronic decays are determined: BR.(tau --> hv)=(12.51 +/- 0.12 +/- 0.13)%, BR(tau --> h pi (o)nu)=(25.38 +/- 0.18 +/- 0.14)% ,BR(tau --> h2 pi (o)nu)=(8.98 +/- 0.21 +/- 0.19)% ,BR(tau --> h greater than or equal to 3 pi (o)nu)=(1.77 +/- 0.14 +/- 0.15)% ,BR(tau --> 3hv)=(9.11 +/- 0.15 +/- 0.08)% ,BR(tau --> 3h pi (o)nu)=(4.77 +/- 0.19 +/- 0.10)% ,BR(tau --> 3h greater than or equal to 2 pi (o)nu)=(0.45 +/- 0.10 +/- 0.11)%, where the first error is statistical and the second systematic.
A novel neural network is proposed in this paper for realizing associative memory. The main advantage of the neural network is that each prototype pattern is stored if and only if as an asymptotically stable equilibrium point. Furthermore, the basin of attraction of each desired memory pattern is distributed reasonably (in the Hamming distance sense), and an equilibrium paint that is not asymptotically stable is really the state that cannot be recognized. The proposed network also has a high storage as well as the capability of learning and forgetting, and all its components can be implemented. The network considered is a very simple linear system with a projection on a closed convex set spanned by the prototype patterns. The advanced performance of the proposed network is demonstrated by means of simulation of a numerical example.
In this study, an integrated hydro-ecological modeling approach is proposed for the application of water resources management in the Lake Bositeng Basin. The integration is based on dynamic water and salt balance analyses and an artificial neural network method for ecological modeling. The model can effectively reflect the effects of dynamic water and salt balances and their relationships with a number of ecological factors. Also, it can predict the yield of a large grass plant (reed) on a yearly basis with the dynamic characteristics of water/salt budget being quantified The application of this approach to the Lake Bositeng Basin indicates that the water and salt balances have been appropriately simulated and reasonable results have been obtained. In addition, the research results have provided bases for sustainable water resources management in the Lake Bositeng Basin. The approach of coupling dynamic water- and salt-balance analysis with ecological modeling represents a new attempt that contributes to the area of water resources management. Further exploration based on the proposed approach could help to generate useful water resources allocation alternatives with quantified ecological effects for improving sustainability of the local economy.
This paper contributes to two aspects of displacement back analysis of rock slopes. First, a novel method for displacement back analysis is presented, based on error back-propagation neural network and genetic algorithm (GA). The BP network replaces the time-consuming finite element method, thus enhancing the efficiency of the analysis. The GA is used as an optimization method, whose global search strategy can effectively improve the reliability of the analysis, thereby, making the back-analyzed results independent of the initial values. Application of this methodology is illustrated with a numerical example. Secondly, the deformation mechanism of rock mass is duly taken into account in the displacement back analysis of Profile 17-17 of the permanent shiplock slope at the Three Gorges Project site, by treating the disturbed zones as weakened media, yielding reasonable results. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
We theoretically investigate the asymptotical stability, local bifurcations and chaos of discrete-time recurrent neural networks with the form of
In this paper, we focus on the problem of optimally scheduling a closed reentrant system with one type of parts and two service centers, each of which consisting of one machine. An algorithm based on reinforcement learning is proposed. The results of the experiments indicate that reinforcement learning can outperform some familar heuristic methods and is closed to the WB policy.
This paper focus on swarm intelligence based clustering algorithm. A clustering algorithm based on swarm intelligence is systematically proposed. It derived from a basic model interpreting ant colony organization of cemeteries. Some important concepts, such as swami similarity, swarm similarity coefficient and probability conversion function are also proposed. A simplified probability conversion function is given for simplifying adaptation of parameters, meanwhile the importance of swarm similarity coefficient for the algorithm is analyzed. Experimental results show the good performance of the clustering algorithm.
Global competition and rapidly changing customer requirements are forcing major changes in the production styles and configuration of manufacturing organizations. Virtual enterprise is an advanced management and organization schema for enterprises to survive, develop and enlarge competition priority in unpredictable, constant and fast variable competition environment. Whereas current production planning and control system can't meet the requirements of enterprises under virtual enterprises environment, such as autonomy, distributed, dynamic, heterogeneity; interoperability, cooperation, etc, a multi-agent based distributed production planning and control system is proposed, which is constructed by adding several intelligent agents on legacy production planning and control system to meet above-all requirements. The aim of the system is to enhance the performance of enterprises under virtual enterprises to gain shorter dead line, rapid response to customers' requirements, higher accuracy of delivery, less storage, higher resources utility, less transportation costs, etc.
This paper revisits the constrained learning (CL) algorithm proposed by Perantonis et al, which is an efficient back propagation (BP) algorithm formed by imposing the constraint condition (called as priori information) implicit in the issues on the conventional BP algorithm. It can be found, after analyzing the CL algorithm, that the two learning parameters (a predetermined vector quantity deltaQ corresponding to the constraint conditions and the bound (deltaP)(2) of the sum of square of the individual weight changes at each iteration) in the algorithm, must be suitably selected. Otherwise, the algorithm will be not able to converge within a limited time, even diverge. This paper gives a feasible adaptive method for selecting the two learning parameters. In addition, other possible selection method for deltaQ is also explored Finally, some omputer simulation results using several examples to verify the performance of our approach are reported.
In finding roots of polynomials, ones meet often with the case that two roots are possible very closer so that they can be considered as only one root. In other words, they can not be resolved by some root-finder This phenomenon is generally prohibited in most cases. In order to solve this problem, this paper proposes a dilation method to change the positions of roots in space so that all roots in space become further and further As a result, any closer roots can be readily resolved In this paper, the root-finder based on feedforward neural networks (FNN) trained with constrained learning can be considered to verify our dilation method for eliminating close roots. Finally, some experimental results are presented to support our claim.
This paper proposes using root moment method to find the roots of arbitrary polynomials. It has been proved that feedforward neural networks (FNN) trained with constrained learning (CL) back propagation (BP) algorithm can be used to estimate the distributions of roots of polynomials. It has been found, however, that using the different priori information implicit in the polynomials for CL-BP algorithm will result in different training time and different estimate values. By comparison, we find that the root moment method implicit in the polynomials can obviously lower the training time and leads to more accurate estimates. Therefore, in this paper the root moment method is employed to find the roots of arbitrary polynomials. This paper presents some computer simulation results, which support our claims.
Neural networks (NNs) for the inversion of chlorophyll concentrations from remote sensing reflectance measurements were designed and trained on a subset of the SeaBAM data set. The remaining SeaBAM data set was then applied to evaluating the performance of NNs and compared with those of the SeaBAM empirical algorithms, NNs achieved better inversion accuracy than the empirical algorithms in most of chlorophyll concentration range, especially in the intermediate and high chlorophyll regions and Case II waters, Systematic overestimation existed in the very low chlorophyll (<0.031 mg/m(3)) region, and little improvement was obtained by changing the size of the training data set.
Interactive Hybrid Strategies Machine Translation (IHSMT) system has just been designed to solve the translation problems. It forms a nice interdependent cooperation relation between human and machine by interaction. The system achieves hybrid strategy translation by synthesizing the rule-based reasoning and case-based reasoning, and therefore overcomes the demerits of single strategy. This paper has done some work on teaming mechanism of this system and proposes a teaming model of human-machine tracking and memorizing (HMTM). This model can store the information of human-machine interaction into memory base as case of machine teaming, and then gradually accumulate knowledge to improve the intelligence of MT system.
As an distributed and parallel processing mechanism, multi-agent systems offer a novel approach to handle complex tasks of intelligent manufacturing system (IMS). Considering there are some common properties between agents and objects, the object-oriented method is used to constructed the operational model for agent-based in this paper. Notions and methods of object-oriented model designing for MAS is proposed. Besides, the object-oriented system implementation technique for agent-based IMS is discussed at the end.
Knowledge acquisition from text is an important research area in the current practice of knowledge engineering. The challenge of knowledge texts is generally ambiguous and unstructured. In this paper, we present a method for acquiring military knowledge from texts in the Electronic Encyclopedia of China. The method consists of two major components: a Military Knowledge Description Language (MKDL) which is to be used by knowledge engineers to formalize military texts, and a MKDL compiler for parsing and analyzing the formalized texts into a knowledge base. We use an IO-model as a device for representing military concepts and relations in knowledge compilation.
This paper use connecting method and gray system theory model to analyse the structure of talented person and test precision of predictive model with back testing difference methodic. General gray system predictive model loses sight of its system's dynamic character because its parametric Long-data use after once estimates. This paper makes a sort of amend methodic. The gray predictive model uses the parametre of gay information and araises white degree of gray plane, reduce predictive gray interval. The paper present the required preditive result of High New technique industrial garden's.
Problem Solving Environment, PSE for short, is a relatively new and diverse area of research, and till now it resists simple universally accepted definitions. In brief, PSE is a complete and integrated computing environment in which new application can be constructed, compiled and executed. The main purpose to develop PSE is to relieve scientists and engineers from tedious computer application technologies so that they can devote themselves into researches on new ideologies and technologies of their own field and achieve more advanced research production as soon as possible. PSE for any field will bring immeasurable value for the development of that Field. In this paper, we discuss PSE for enterprise, and bring for-ward the concept of Enterprise PSE, E-PSE for short. Furthermore, we describe the architecture of E-PSE and the process of constructing E-PSE in detail. In addition, we introduce an E-PSE example of process industry: an E-PSE for oil refining enterprise. Finally, we give some conclusions and prospects for E-PSE.
An optomechatronics design project for the pilot of an Arecibo-type large spherical radio telescope for the square kilometre array (SKA) is proposed, concentrating on the feed-supporting system with large-span cables. The feed-supporting system consists of two parallel manipulators: the parallel cable manipulator, which provides a large workspace for the trajectory tracking and realizes the coarse tracking control, and the fine-tuning Stewart platform, which connects the parallel cable manipulator to the cabin structure and implements the high-accuracy requirement of tracking. In order to improve the real-time controllability, an approximate kinematics model of the parallel cable manipulator is developed using straight links to approximate the cables based on static equilibrium at low tracking velocity. A control strategy for the feed-supporting system is proposed using the independent control method, and the corresponding tracking accuracy of the coarse control and fine tuning is presented. The simulation results have supported the rationale of this approximate model of the parallel cable manipulator and the feasibility of this mechatronics design project for the SKA.
It is a hotspot problem in robotics research that determine the related pose between two space objects and realize their cooperate, 3D visual method is the main method for measures the space object pose. Because the rigidity demand during pose computes. the 3D vision at this condition is model based. That is to say the model of the marks must be used as a strict restriction during the computing. This paper will give the method of computing 3D pose at first and discuss the model restriction problem emphatically, include model-based monocular vision method and model-based binocular stereo. The compare analysis between the two methods and the experiment result will be given at last.
The new topological indices A(x1)-A(x3) suggested in our laboratories were applied to the study of structure-property relationships between color reagents and their color reactions with yttrium. The topological indices of twenty asymmetrical phosphone bisazo derivatives of chromotropic acid were calculated. The work shows that QSPR can be used as a novel aid to predict the molar absorptivities of color reactions and in the long term to be helpful tool in-color reagent design. Multiple regression analysis and neural network were employed simultaneously in this study. The results demonstrated the feasibility and the effectiveness of the method.
Establishing the mechanical rock mass parameters is one of the important tasks for the highwall stability analysis of the permanent shiplock at the Three Gorges Project in China. Existing back analysis methods are not sufficient to provide the necessary accuracy and to recognize non-linear relations. The new displacement back analysis method proposed in this paper is a combination of a neural network, an evolutionary calculation, and numerical analysis techniques. The non-linear relation involving displacement and mechanical parameters is adequately recognized by the neural network techniques. The neural networks learn using an evolutionary technique, with samples created by orthogonal design and tested with new cases given by event design. With the neural network model established, the mechanical parameters are recognized using a genetic algorithm over a large search space in the global range. The predicted displacement occurring for each excavation step from January 1998 to the end of excavation and their cumulative values for 5 later excavation steps are closely characterized by the new analysis technique. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
We report our effort to build a geometry deductive database, which can be used to find the fixpoint for a geometric configuration. The system can find all the properties of the configuration that can be deduced using a fixed set of geometric rules. To control the size of the database, we propose the idea of a structured deductive database. Our experiments show that this technique could reduce the size of the database by one hundred times. We propose the data-based search strategy to improve the efficiency of forward chaining. We also make clear progress in the problems of how to select good geometric rules, how to add auxiliary points, and how to construct numerical diagrams as models automatically. The program is tested with 160 nontrivial geometry configurations. For these geometric configurations, the program not only finds most of their well-known properties but also often gives unexpected results, some of which are possibly new. Also, the proofs generated by the program are generally short and totally geometric.
Independent joint control for robots is enhanced to suppress the dynamic couplings by incorporating an acceleration feedback loop that is designed in terms of its stability and ability in resisting the dynamic coupling disturbances. The sensing and modeling of joint acceleration via linear accelerometers is dealt from the viewpoint of practical implementation. Extensive experiments are conducted on a three-link direct drive robot, to mainly investigate the ability of the independent joint controller with the acceleration loop in resisting the coupling torque, and demonstrating the enhanced trajectory tracking performance. Results are given against the ones obtained by conventional independent joint control without the acceleration feedback control. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
Artificial neural network (ANN) and multiple linear regression (MLR) were used for the simulation of C-13 NMR chemical shifts of 118 central carbon atoms in 18 pyridines and quinolines. The electronic and geometric features were calculated to describe the environments of the central carbon atom. The results provided by ANN method were better than that achieved by MLR.
In this paper a new method is proposed for mechanical geometry theorem proving. It combines vectorial equations solving in Clifford algebra formalism with Wu's method. The proofs produced have significantly enhanced geometric meaning and fewer nongeometric nondegeneracy conditions.
Two inference rules are discussed in boolean ring based theorem proving, and linear strategy is developed. It is shown that both of them are complete for linear strategy. Moreover, by introducing a partial ordering on atoms, pseudo O-linear and O-linear strategies are presented. The former is complete, the latter, however, is complete for clausal theorem proving.
Multi-temporal NOAA AVHRR end RADARSAT images depicting flood conditions in the Nenjiang and Songhua River Basins during the summer of 1998 were used to monitor the floods and assess the damage. A knowledge-based RBFNN model was developed to extract the dynamic flooding information from AVNHRR images. To map the flooded area more accurately, three RADARSAT Scan SAR images acquired at different times were used. Threshold-based image segmentation and texture anal-ysis methods were utilized to process the SAR image, and to extract information on flooding duration and depth. This study shows that the integrated use of different remote sensing plat-forms images can provide real-time and all-weather monitor-ing of floods and provide necessary information for flooding control and disaster relief.
A constitutive model for a rock mass with intermittent joints and with an evolution equation for the propagation of secondary cracks at joint tips is proposed in this paper using fracture mechanics and damage mechanics. The principle of dynamic construction mechanics of a rock mass is described. The principles of dynamic programming and artificial intelligence techniques, as well as the above mentioned mechanical models, are used to perform optimizing analysis for the construction scheme of a group of chambers for a large water-conservancy project. The results show that the optimizing analysis is effective. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
The quantum chemical parameters and the topological indices have been calculated for the prediction of the toxicity of amino-benzenes in the environment, and work has been done on the multiple regression and neural networks. The combination of CoMFA with formation heat yields greatly improved results. A good model has been obtained which provides a basis for the studies of the toxic action mechanism.
Repository-based component reuse is an important technique for raising the efficiency of software development. Traditional approaches focus only on repository organisation and retrieval techniques. This paper proposes a problem-oriented component reuse framework through incorporating a problem-solving mechanism with the traditional component repository. The framework improves the traditional approaches in two aspects. Firstly, the reuse is promoted from the component level to the problem-solving level. User is encouraged to concentrate on the problem description and solving problem through top-down refinement rather than plunge into the technique details at the beginning. Secondly, the environment evolution during running the candidate components for composing an application is simulated through case-based rule reasoning. The candidate components are dynamically checked before composing an application system. We have designed a model base system for the application in scientific computing field based on the framework. The application and analysis show; the approach feasible. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science Inc. All rights reserved.
A test problem generator, by means of neural networks nonlinear function approximation capability, is given in this paper which provides test problems, with many predetermined local minima and a global minimum, to evaluate nonlinear programming algorithms that are designed to solve the problem globally.
A new method for direct assessment of air pollution is developed by using nuclear microprobe techniques to analyse single aerosol particles (SAP). Every particle is characterized by its PIXE: spectrum which call be considered to be its fingerprint. The strategy for fingerprint classification and identification is used to trace a measured aerosol particle to its original source. Most of the particles have a size of up to 3 mu m. The particles are separately attached to a clean thin foil. The Leipzig Nanoprobe, LIPSION, is used for this study. There are two steps in the new method. First. collect samples from different sources. measure them and compile their characteristic spectra into a library. Then, assess the environmental samples by comparing their spectra with those in the library. An artificial neural network (ANN) package is used for spectrum comparison. (C) 2000 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Quantitative structure-retention relationship(QSRR) was studied for amines to gas-liquid chromatography on three stationary phases of different polarities with the topological indices A(m) (A(m1), A(m2), A(m3)) and gravitational index GI. The algorithm of "Leaps and Bounds" was performed for selection of the variables. And the multi-regression and the quasi-Newton neural networks were employed for the calculation with better results.
The extended gravitational index G(Q) and quantum-chemical descriptors were calculated for the relationship analysis of aminoquinolines. An evolutionary algorithm was described for variable selection and building QSAR models. And the quasi-newton neural networks were employed with better results.
Stable and controllable transition from free motion to constrained motion is of central importance for robots in contact with environment in many applications. In this paper, a joint acceleration feedback control of high bandwidth is employed to damp oscillations during the contact transition when the approaching speed does not vanish, In this control scheme, a classical integral force controller is refined by means of joint acceleration and velocity feedback. This is intended to achieve a stable contact transition without need of adjusting the controller parameters adaptive to the unknown or changing environments. Extensive experiments are conducted on the third joint of a three-link direct-drive robot to verify the proposed scheme for the environments of various stiffnesses, including elastic (sponge), less-elastic (cardboard), and hard (steel plate) surfaces. Results are also compared with those by the transition control without the acceleration feedback. The proposed scheme is shown to be promising in terms of robustness, stability, and adaptability.
In this paper, the domain of attraction of memory patterns and the exponential convergence rate of the network trajectories to memory patterns for Hopfield continuous associative memory are estimated. These results can be used for the evaluation of fault-tolerance capability and the synthesis procedures for Hopfield continuous feedback associative memory neural networks and they are easy to check and apply in practice. (C) 2000 Academic Press.
Proteins of known structures are usually classified into four structural classes: all-a, all-beta, alpha+beta, and alpha/beta type of proteins. A number of methods to predicting the structural class of a protein based on its amino acid composition have been developed during the past few years. Recently, a component-coupled method was developed for predicting protein structural class according to amino acid composition. This method is based on the least Mahalanobis distance principle, and yields much better predicted results in comparison with the previous methods. However, the success rates reported for structural class prediction by different investigators are contradictory. The highest reported accuracies by this method are near 100%, but the lowest one is only about 60%. The goal of this study is to resolve this paradox and to determine the possible upper limit of prediction rate for structural classes. In this paper, based on the normality assumption and the Bayes decision rule for minimum error, a new method is proposed for predicting the structural class of a protein according to its amino acid composition. The detailed theoretical analysis indicates that if the four protein folding classes are governed by the normal distributions, the present method will yield the optimum predictive result in a statistical sense. A non-redundant data set of 1,189 protein domains is used to evaluate the performance of the new method, Our results demonstrate that 60% correctness is the upper limit for a 4-type class prediction from amino acid composition alone for an unknown query protein. The apparent relatively high accuracy level (more than 90%) attained in the previous studies was due to the preselection of test sets, which may not be adequately representative of all unrelated proteins. Proteins 2000;38:165-175, (C) 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
In this paper, the robot force control scheme is suggested for open robot controller, which combines the force control and collision avoidance algorithms. The adaptive fuzzy control approach is selected to realize force tracking when the environment parameters are unknown and vary considerably, We design the RobForce class derived from the open robot class with C++ language, In this robot force class, we cite the virtual force approach and transform collision avoidance into the force control problem and unite it with the force control in the RobForce Class. Based on the robot class library, the user can develop own robot force control system. In addition we design a demo software to verify the scheme and the simulation demonstrates that the robot force control scheme is simple, universal for position based robot, and is capable of force tracking regardless of wide parameter variations.
This paper is concerned with the stabilization problem of multiple chained form control systems with input constraints. A new controller presented can stabilize the system to an arbitrarily small E-neighborhood of its equilibrium in a finite time. This is achieved by the sliding mode approach and a multi-step control strategy. The application of it to a nonholonomic wheeled mobile robot is described. Simulation result shows that the proposed controller is effective.
In this paper, we describe a new Chinese character recognition system, in which neural networks are employed as a nonlinear pre-classifier to pre-classify similar Chinese characters, and an algorithm of clustering called Association Class Grouping algorithm (ACG) is hired to cluster similar Chinese characters. In our system, feature of contour direction is extracted to form a Bayesian classifier. Experiments have been conducted to recognize 3,755 Chinese Characters. The recognition rate is about 92%.
A neural network-based process model is proposed to optimize the semiconductor manufacturing process. Being different from some works in several research groups which developed neural network-based models to predict process quality with a set of process variables of only single manufacturing step, we applied this model to wafer fabrication parameters control and wafer lot yield optimization. The original data are collected from a wafer fabrication line, including technological parameters and wafer test results. The wafer lot yield is taken as the optimization target. Learning from historical technological records and wafer test results, the model can predict the wafer yield. To eliminate the "bad" or noisy samples from the sample set, an experimental method was used to determine the number of hidden units so that both good learning ability and prediction capability can be obtained.
In this paper, we apply Genetic Programming(GP) on multi-robot cooperation and competition problem. GP is taken as a real time planning method in stead of learning method, Robot all use GP to make a plan and then walk according to the plan. The environment is composed of two parts, natural environment, which is the obstacles, and social environment that refers to other robots. The cooperation process is accomplished by robot's adaptation to both of them. In spite of the fact that there is no communication among robots and little knowledge about how to cooperate well, the adaptive capability in dynamic environment enable robots to complete a common task or solve the competition. Several experiments are taken and the results are shown.
Recently, lots of experiences in the synergy between the fields of Robotics and Virtual Reality have been working. Those researches have shown that the symbiosis of robot techniques with VR techniques can break new grounds in the field of robotics. In this paper, we built a system with virtual reality man-machine interface for underwater robot tele-operation. One of our purposes is to best setup a virtual reality man-machine interactive control for tele-present by proposed method: VSCM (Virtual Supervisor Control Method). Based on VSCM, using technology of fusing information coming form both real sensors and virtual sensors the effectiveness and precision of underwater robot are improved.
In this paper, An agent-based modeling method for job shop dynamic scheduling is presented based on analysis of all kinds of traditional scheduling methods. Two types of agents in this Multi-Agent architecture are described (Executive Agent and Manager Agent). Using this architectural framework, a Multi-Agent based prototype system used for job shop dynamic scheduling was developed. Some crucial problems and the solutions in solving the cooperation and coordination of a set of autonomous agents are discussed, and some implementation techniques are also introduced. Copyright (C) 1999 IFAC.
In some comprehensive systems, as decisive loops, expert systems consist in the whole system, so much more studies on its reasoning time are necessary. The reasoning time in expert system relates to its reasoning mode, its knowledge base architecture, the performance of computer and the support languages. This paper takes the knowledge base architecture as an example to study the reasoning time. At last, temporally homogeneous Markov chain is used to model for the knowledge base. The time estimating mathematics model and the computation method are also given, which can provide proofs for the comprehensive system controlling and real time simulation.
To exploit the advantages of multiple mobile robots system, the robots must have some degree of autonomy and cooperation. However, autonomy and cooperation are contradictory to each other, which makes it difficult to optimize the control parameters of robot's behaviors manually. Genetic Algorithm is used in this paper to solve this problem. By altering the weightings of the autonomy and cooperation measures, the robots can exhibit different "personalities", which is testified by the simulation experiment.
This paper deals with the stabilisation of dynamic systems for two omnidirectional mobile robots by using the inner product of two vectors, one is from a robot's position to another, the other is from a robot's target point to another. The multi-step control law is given, which can exponentially stabilize the dynamic system and make the distance between two robots be great or equal to the collision-free safe distance. The application of it to two omni-directional mobile robots is described. Simulation result shows that the proposed controller is effective.
In this paper, multirobot system is introduced in map-building task, the data fusion and multirobot cooperation are focused on. A suitable range sensor model is addressed, and several situations that occurred in multiple robots building map are analyzed. Evidential reasoning based on Dempster-Shafer theory is used in data fusion, and cooperation strategies are presented to avoid invalid sensing information.
This paper describes an on line obstacle avoidance approach followed the idea of potential field. By build velocity potential field the method uses relative velocity information. It provides the mobile robot with a more efficient motion in a dynamic world with moving obstacles. It can also be used as a distributed algorithm applied to the cooperative avoidance motion of multiple mobile robots.
Man-machine intelligent working system (MMIWS) is a kind of system that interfuses human intelligent and machine intelligent with the addition of working ability and can deal with the indeterminate operation tasks in the structureless environment. One of example is the partial grinding robot that will be used in iron and steel plants. There are scars and blemishes on the steel ingots or billets after rolling which must be clear away by grinding. These tasks of operation can not determined in advance because scars or blemishes on the surface of each billet to be grinding are vary in distribution, shape, size, depth and quantity. In the Man-machine intelligent working systems, the human intelligent can entered into the system at every levels such as task plan level, path program level, motion control level and so on, so that two kinds of intelligent of the human and machine can be combined nicely.
Based on the concept and requirements of supply chain management in manufacturing enterprises, this paper emphasizes the importance of coordination in supply chain and introduces relative researches. On the basis of multi-agent theory and its analysis methods in DAI (Distributed Artificial Intelligence), the paper presents a supply chain management framework, defines the agents' functions and responsibility and studies the contents, features and solutions of coordinated supply chain. In the end, the paper presents the software architecture to develop a coordination environment based on CORBA and KQML protocols.
This paper outlines the architecture and state of art technology of utilizing computer communication networks and field programmable logic devices to implement intelligent neuro-fuzzy control systems for smart consumer electronics.
A hybrid artificial intelligent optimization (HAIO) method, which combines traditional classification pattern recognition (CPR) with artificial neural networks (ANN), applied to industrial processes is presented. This new method includes the fuzzy membership function of sample class, the center cluster of class, a hopeful region, inverse mapping, independent neural network modeling of classified analogy, CPR-ANN, GA (genetic algorithm)-ANN and network-based expert system etc. Some applications of the HAIO are shown. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Layered feed-forward neural networks are powerful tools particularly suitable for the analysis of nonlinear multivariate data. In this paper, an artificial neural network using improved error back-propagation algorithm has been applied to solve problems in the field of chromatography. In this paper, an artificial neural network has been used in the following two applications: (1) To model retention behavior of 32 solutes in a methanol-tetrathydrofuran-water system and 49 solutes in methanol-acetonitrile-water system as a function of mobile phase compositions in high performance liquid chromatography. The correlation coefficients between the calculated and the experimental capacity factors were all larger than 0.98 for each solute in both the training set and the predicting set. The average deviation for all data points was 8.74% for the tetrahydrofuran-containing system and 7.33% for the acetonitrile-containing system. 2). To classify and predict two groups of different liver and bile diseases using bile acid data analyzed by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). The first group includes three classes: healthy persons, choledocholithiasis patients and cholecystolithiasis patients; the total consistent rate of classification was 87%. The second group includes six classes: healthy persons, pancreas cancer patients, hepatoportal high pressure patients, cholelithiasis patients, cholangietic jaundice patients and hepatonecrosis patients; the total consistent rate of classification was 83%. It was shown that artificial neural network possesses considerable potential for retention prediction and pattern recognition based on chromatographic data. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
The investigations of classification on the valence changes from RE3+ to RE2+ (RE = Eu, Sm, Yb, Tm) in host compounds of alkaline earth berate were performed using artificial neural networks (ANNs). For comparison, the common methods of pattern recognition, such as SIMCA, KNN, Fisher discriminant analysis and stepwise discriminant analysis were adopted. A learning set consisting of 24 host compounds and a test set consisting of 12 host compounds were characterized by eight crystal structure parameters. These parameters were reduced from 8 to 4 by leaps and bounds algorithm. The recognition rates from 87.5 to 95.8% and prediction capabilities from 75.0 to 91.7% were obtained. The results provided by ANN method were better than that achieved by the other four methods. (C) 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper deals with the demand for money, including narrow money (M-1) and broad money (M-2) in China. We use the cointegration and error-correction model to formulate the function of money demand and merge the short-run and long-run equations to give forecasts over different horizons. In particular, we combine very simple artificial neural networks (ANNs) with the cointegration and error-correction model to give a nonlinear model. These models are quarterly models, sampled from the first quarter of 1980 to the fourth quater of 1994, and the multi-step forecasts are from the first quarter of 1990 to the fourth quarter of 1994. Both the fitted values and predictive values for M-1 and M-2 are satisfactory. Finally, we give forecasts for M-2 from the first quarter of 1995 to the second quarter of 1996.
An algorithm for controlling DSW objective lens temperature is discussed in this paper. By applying a fuzzy control algorithm on the basis of PID control algorithm, we specify different P, I, and D values according to different ranges of temperature and different temperature tendencies. As a result, we gain high precision of temperature control.
A novel air-hydraulic cylinder and a new air-hydraulic servo system for driving robots is presented in this paper. In the new system, taking the advantages both in hydraulic and pneumatic, air-hydraulic control technique is developed. In this way, comparing with traditional pneumatic and hydraulic system. The new system is of higher stiffness accuracy and simplicity. In the pneumatic circuit two positions three ways valves, PCM valves and oil on-off valves is involved, the simulation and experiments' results show that this method is effective.
Geometry Expert (GEX) is a software system for dynamic diagram drawing and automated geometry theorem proving and discovering. For a given diagram, we can use GEX to generate a database which contains all the properties of this diagram that can be deduced from a fixed set of geometric rules or axioms, and for each geometric property in the database GEX can generate an elegant proof for it. Based on this software, we introduce the concept of dynamic logic model which can do reasoning itself. Logic models can be used for intelligent educational tasks, such as automated generation of test problems, automated evaluation of students' answers, intelligent tutoring, etc.
Clifford algebra plays an important role in mathematics and physics, and has various applications in geometric reasoning, computer vision and robotics. When applying Clifford algebra to geometric problems, an important technique is parametric representation of geometric entities, such as planes and spheres in Euclidean and spherical spaces, which occur in the form of homogeneous multivectors. Computing a parametric representation of a geometric entity is equivalent to factoring a homogeneous multivector into an outer product of vectors. Such a factorization is called outer product factorization.
Fault diagnosing has recently received considerable attention. Its applicability is severely restricted by the computational complexity involved in the diagnosing process. In this paper, it is presented an open architecture framework for distributed real-time fault diagnosing in an industrial environment. Within this framework, all work units comprising the manufacturing system are modeled using intelligent agents. Each agent has autonomous and cooperative functions, observing the local fault diagnosing process via the combination of model-based qualitative and heuristic reasoning with learning techniques; and cooperatively reporting the primary diagnosis result to the diagnosis manager, which supervises the global fault diagnosing process using the constraint propagation technology. To fast the constraint propagation, a matrix-based constraint parallel propagation method is discussed, which greatly reduces the computational overhead. Also, a formal description method for agent's structure is given, which can be used to describe agents and verify their functions.
Nucleosides in human urine have been studied frequently as a possible biomedical marker for cancers, acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and the whole-body turnover of RNAs. A capillary electrophoretic method that can quantitatively analyze urinary normal and modified nucleosides in less than 40 min with a good resolution and sufficient sensitivity has been developed. Twelve kinds of normal and modified nucleosides were determined in urine samples from 25 healthy persons and 25 cancer patients of 14 kinds of cancers. Artificial neural networks have been used as a powerful pattern recognition tool to distinguish cancer patients from healthy persons. The recognition rate for the training set reached to 100% and above 85% of the members in the predicting set were correctly classified. in addition, the neural network technique was compared with methods of the principal component analysis and the canonical discriminant analysis. The results demonstrate that the predictive ability of the artificial neural network is stronger than the others in this study. (C) 1998 Published by Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Statistics and geographical information system (GIS) are receiving more and more attention in environmental geochemistry. However, it is important to know the functions and limitations, the advantages and disadvantages of these techniques for better understanding of their applications. Univariate statistics is useful for mean calculation, identification of probability distribution and outlier detection. Multivariate analysis plays an important role in the study of relationships among variables. However, while dealing with regionalized variables in environmental geochemistry, the conventional statistics show their shortcomings as they are based on some kind of assumptions for random variables. Spatial analysis makes use of the spatial coordinate information of the variables, and also takes the spatial correlation into consideration. However, these pure mathematical methods are still unsatisfactory as the nature of environmental geochemistry is far from being so simple. GIS provides visualization and some spatial analysis functions with much spatial information involved. An expert system is useful for classification and prediction based on various types of information. However, the rule base for expert systems in environmental geochemistry is too small, and needs to be developed. Problems and possible solutions with the application of statistics and GIS in environmental geochemistry are discussed. Examples are based on the authors' experiences in the Yangtze River basin, China, and in southeastern Sweden. Several ideas are discussed in this paper. A 'robust-symmetric mean' proposed by the authors is one of the best methods for mean calculation. For the probability distribution of trace elements, the widely accepted 'log-normal distribution' is only a special case of 'positively skewed distributions' which is more adequate. The combination of univariate methods and PCA is used to detect outlying samples. Partial least square (PLS) regression, principal component analysis (PCA), cluster analysis, discriminant analysis and expert systems may be used to differentiate anthropogenic anomalies from the natural background. Spatial correlations among environmental geochemical variables are revealed by cross-variograms. An environmental information system, with the integration of statistics, GIS, expert systems and environmental models should be established to further the study in environmental geochemistry, as well as to provide decision support. (C) 1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
In this work, we address an issue of nonlinearity variation evaluation for fuzzy PID controllers. This evaluation, or analysis, is important and basic in the light of nonlinear control design. The paper tries to investigate fuzzy controllers in regard to their nonlinearity variations when a finite number of tuning parameters are used. We suggest a Nonlinearity Variation Index (NVI) for assessing the nonlinear design of the one-input fuzzy PID controllers developed by the authors. This index provides a quantitative measure to examine the nonlinearity freedom, or limitation, of the fuzzy systems. Using the NVI as a process-independent measure, designers are able to improve the design in the selections of the fuzzy rules, membership functions and inference schemes. Two differently-designed controllers are studied for the demonstration of how to use the NVI for an in-depth analysis of the nonlinear systems.
The design and implementation of an agent-based visualized developing tool are presented in this paper for establishing intelligent system composed of multi-agents. Being user-oriented, this tool has high interaction ability, more transparency and convenient operation. Moreover, domain knowledge is represented and acquired in a visualized manner and developers can use interface generator to do visual design of user interface. During the establishment of the whole intelligent system, visualization method is also used to do task planning and to generate different Problem Solving Agent(PSA). These PSAs will solve complex problems through cooperation.
In this paper, a heuristic leading mechanism in the platform for intelligent systems is proposed to realize the intelligent knowledge acquisition. In this platform, Main Control Agent manages agents with various functions and makes them solve problems through the communicative and cooperative mechanism. The purpose of Leading Agent is to acquire knowledge through human-machine interaction. The platform based on the heuristic leading mechanism is friendly to users and easy to operate.
Up to now, there have been many methods for knowledge representing and reasoning in causal networks. but none of them includes the researching of the cooperations of the nodes in causal networks. In practice, without thinking of these cooperations, it may influence the accuracy of reasoning, and even give rise to incorrect reasoning. In this paper, based on two-layer causal networks, we first give the definitions on cooperation sets to construct a new causal network called Cooperation Causal Network(CCN), which can be used as a model of neural network for diagnostic problem solving and then we give the activation rules and use neural computing methods and gradient descent method to finish the diagnostic reasoning. Finally. these methods have been proved in theory and the structure and functions of a diagnostic system in the domain of digital circuit fault diagnosis have been given.
This paper presents a visualized tool: its design, implementation and application for developing agriculture intelligent system(AIS)*. Agricultural knowledge is. represented and acquired in a visualized manner which not only makes the knowledge base easily to maintain but also enhances the transparency of the system and the convenience of operation. Besides an interface generator which is provided to do visual design of the user interface, visualization method is also used in complex task decomposition in order to generate heterogeneous problem solving agents for the final hybrid AIS which has synthesized problem solving strategies. Copyright (C) 1998 IFAC.
It is well known that the storage capacity may be large if all memory patterns are orthogonal to each other. In this paper, a clear description is given about the relation between the dimension N and the maximal number of orthogonal vectors with components +/-1, and also the conception of attractive index is proposed to estimate the basin of attraction. Theoretic analysis and computer simulation show that each memory pattern's basin of attraction contains at least one Hamming ball when the storage capacity is less than 0.33N which is better than usual 0.15 N.
To discriminate the complete sets of the HMMs for Chinese initials and Finals, we constructed in this paper Hierarchical Neural Networks (HNN) integrating the knowledge of perceptual confusions among Chinese Initials and Finals developed by Jialu Zhang in 1982. instead of using a large monolithic neural network, the HNN system employs a, large set of hierarchically organized but relatively small neural networks to perform the probability density estimation, The parameters of all the neural nets in the HNN are automatically trainable using the GEM algorithm. We report results on the 1267 Chinese Syllables corpus using this kind of hybrid HMM, HNN models.
This paper gives a condition for the global stability of a continuous-time hopfield neural network when its activation function maybe not monotonically increasing.
Traditional repository-based component reuse is to retrieve the required components from a passive component repository. This paper proposes an active component repository framework, which improves the traditional repository-based component reuse in two aspects. Firstly, the passive retrieval-oriented reuse is promoted to the problem-oriented reuse. Users can use a multi-level problem description approach to describe problems in top-down refinement. Secondly, the change of environment information of running a component is represented as case-based rules. The environment evolution during running the candidate component set for composing an application can be simulated by rules reasoning. Hence some run-time errors can be checked before running the application. Applications show the proposed framework practical.
Human can acquire productions that embody domain-specific knowledge from examples and by doing (i.e. problem-solving). This kind of learning has been simulated with computer in the form of adaptive production system. However, the mechanism by which new productions are acquired is still unclear. Anderson etc. claim that production would first be learned as a verbal proposition before being transerred into a skill of perceiving the cues and responding to them. Our research show that this is not the case of learning from examples and by doing. It was found that subjects can acquire knowledge in the form of production directly, without learning the vebal proposition of knowledge. In this paper, a theory of constructing and elaborating of conditions(CEC) to explain the mechanism of knowledge acquisition from examples and by doing was proposed, and the application of CEC theory in education was introduced as well. The Theory of CEC for knowledge Acquisition and Its Application in Education Machine Learning.
Aiming at the practical plants with strong nonlinear characteristics or changing operating points, this paper develops a fuzzy adaptive control strategy based on RBFN, continuing the work in papers[1][2]. Theoretically, neural networks can approximate any given sample sets accurately, but an industrial plant is often highly non-linear or with changing operating points. It is very difficult to approximate such a plant by only one neural network. On the other hand, the multi-model method brings about the oscillation problem. The control strategy proposed in this paper possesses not only the performance of high accuracy like that of multi-model method, but also eliminates the disadvantages of multi-model method. Simulation results to a pH CSTR demonstrate the above properties.
In the continuous speech recognition, the co-pronunciation between two successive phonemes seriously disturb recognition effect. It is difficult for pure hidden Markov model(HMM) methods to cope with the co-pronunciation, because HMM methods consider that two successive frames of speech are independant. The hybrid HMM and artificial neural networks(ANN) methods with feedback MLP[1,3] provide the ability to cope with the co-pronunciation by means of the feedback input. In this paper, we propose a new feedback method for feedback hybrid HMM/ANN methods on the basis of the original methods[1,3]. New feedback method provides the more information of co-pronunciation to feedback ANN. As a result, new feedback method falls the error rate 20.4%. Additionally, By means of our previous work, the hybrid mthods HMM/ANN with the feedback double MLP structure, we discuss the method that reduces the computation of the feedback MLP during the recognition.
To compare to the pure hidden Markov model (HMM) methods, the hybrid artificial neural networks/hidden Markov models (ANN/HMM) methods(see [2], [3], [6]) have many advantages for speech recognition in theory. But, in practice, the hybrid ANN/HMM methods don't perform obviously better than HMM methods. In order to make use of the advantages of the hybrid ANN/HMM methods, in this paper, we proposes new feedforward and feedback hybrid methods that have double MLP structure on the basis of the original feedforward and feedback Hybrid methods. To compare to the original hybrid methods, new hybrid methods can more precisely estimate word model's posterior probabilities. In our experiments, new feedback hybrid method and new feedforward hybrid method fall error rate 42.6% and 25.8%, individually. New hybrid methods can perform Viterbi alignment more precise. Therefore, the training can converges farther.
Functional ceramics have become a new stage with the concept that different kinds of materials, no matter they are organic or inorganic with different functional effects, can be composed together to find a new material by multilayer thin film technologies. In this paper the design of new creative sensors, devices and system is proposed, which is based on:
This paper describes a pilot-scale implementation of a simple, real-time control (RTC) algorithm based on feedback and also outlines the development and simulation testing of a new RTC methodology that combines genetic algorithms (GAs) and artificial neural networks (ANNs). Computer simulations indicated that the simple feedback logic could reduce pumping by 50 to 80 percent if used to replace the existing RTC system in the test area. Experience with the algorithm after its implementation has confirmed the potential of the algorithm to reduce pumping. Additional simulations with an emerging approach to control (based on GAs) indicated possibilities of reducing pumping still further. Although relatively simple flow routing was used in the GAs, these algorithms do not restrict flow routing to any particular method. If highly accurate flow routing is incorporated, GAs are likely to be rendered too slow for on-line applications. Nevertheless, GAs can still be used, because they can be combined with fast executing on-line algorithms, such as ANNs. This possibility was demonstrated by training a multi-layer ANN to approximate one of the GAs developed. In verification runs the trained ANN provided virtually the same control decisions as did the GA used as the source of the training data. (C) 1998 Published by Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
A two level optimization strategy is proposed fur fuzzy control design in this paper. The phase-plane of dynamic system is firstly divided into two-lever nonlinear regions according to response analysis, then a neuro-fuzzy hybrid network is built to optimize the region lever by lever, By the former, control process is decomposed properly, quick dynamic response and stable steady state with high accuracy are achieved coordinately, While through the later, unreasonable factors in the design of fuzz? control are decreased/eliminated and effect of fuzzy control is improved by learning. It offers a general, simple and efficient way for fuzzy control design. The optimized fuzzy controller is adopted in an electrohydraulic servo system, and satisfactory performance is obtained.
This paper presents a new method for constructing discrete-time Hopfield neural networks using evolutionary programming. Under constraints of fixed points, limit cycles or iteration sequences, the method simultaneously acquires both the topology and weights for Hopfield neural networks by solving inequalities. It copes with the limitations of canonical Hopfield learning algorithm. Experimental results are presented which clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
We present a practical symbolic algorithm for the inverse kinematics of 6R manipulator with simple geometry. The distinct feature of the algorithm lies at automatically producing symbolic solutions of inverse kinematics in closed form for the existing industrial robots so far as we know. In this paper, we make use of the algebraic properties of closure equation described in [RR90] to obtain a set of additional equations, then solve the new system consisting of the original equations and additional ones by Gaussian elimination and Bezout resultant. The symbolic computations involved in the algorithm are implemented by Maple computer algebra system. The running time of the algorithm, for all examples we implemented, is in 60 seconds on Pentium 75 machine. Especially, we have obtained symbolic closed farm solutions of some Puma type robots [W89] for the first time. This approach is also applicable to inverse kinematics of all serial manipulators with simple geometry.
A system with neural networks kernel is utlized in the dynamic pile testing to determine the bearing capacity of pile foundation. Three steps are given to take to establish such a system Some effective results are shown to illustrate the application of this software. This paper also suggests a new way to solve the stochastic, fuzzy,high nonlinear problems encounted. in the rock and soil engineering.
A fuzzy control technique has been applied on Weighted Mean Filter, the weights can be determined based on the distance(difference) between each pixel and center pixel(median pixel) of the window, and have given theoretical inference detailedly. The experimental results indicate that this approach can remove noise better than the traditional does.
How to facilitate cooperation of multi-disciplinary teams is a key problem in concurrent engineering(CE) environment. In this paper, we discuss this problem from non-technology enabling sub-system aspects. A hind of task coordination architecture based on contract net is proposed to facilitate the cooperation of multi-disciplinary teams. The major elements of this paper include decomposition and allocation of tasks, organizational structure, task coordination relationship, mechanism of organization and management and communication etc..
An object and agent oriented hybrid programming paradigm is presented in this paper. The introduction of an agent construction part into the existing objected oriented programming languages can enable the smooth transition of programming paradigms, provide better support for the reuse and smooth evolution of software,and at the same time provide a straightforward and high level interaction means for complex applications such as distributed problem solving,computer supported cooperative work etc.,which require complex interactions. The paper discusses the message-driven agent architecture based on class framework,proposes the concept of mental categories without explicit time point and the concept of behavior rule,and introduces the agent programming language COAL0 based on C++.
This paper presents a cooperative design method based on agent. First of all, it analyses presents the cooperative relation within the domain world; then the architecture of agent and hierarchical organization of cooperative agents are given, and the problem solving form of Bulletin Board is introduced. Furthermore, the correlation and the correlation graph of design tasks are described.. Finally, a cooperative mechanical design system is put forward as an example.
Robot self localization plays an important role in various applications of robotics. One of the major obstacles in determining the location of robot is the uncertainty abounding in every phase of localization. In this paper, we present a fuzzy approach to deal with uncertainty. First, we represent the geometric primitives in 2D image and 3D model of environment with fuzzy numbers. Then we employ Fuzzy Similarity Measure to manipulate the uncertainty in feature matching. The procedure for determining the location of robot involves solving only linear equations and is computationally simple. The results of the experiments in real indoor environment demonstrate the effectiveness and the robustness of the method.
In this paper, it is proposed that the Gabor expansion coefficients of a period (or finite) discrete signal in both the critical sampling case and the oversampling case can be computed by TH neural networks. Theoretical analysis and simulations show that this network will certainly provide approximate solutions arbitrarily close to the accurate one within the time of the order of time constants of this network without any programming complexity.
In this paper, we propose a novel method for extracting optimal structure element for MST-based shape description. Specifically, we use tabu search to solve optimal structure element extraction problem for MST-based shape description. In the best of our knowledge, it is the first attempt that tabu search is used in computer vision. Our tabu search (TS) has a number of advantages: (1) TS avoids entrapment in local minima and continues the search to give a near-optimal final solution; (2) TS is very general and conceptually much simpler than either SA or GA; (3) TS is very easy to implement and the entire procedure only occupies a few lines of code; (4) TS is a flexible framework of a variety of strategies originating from artificial intelligence and is therefore open to further improvement.
Within the field of DAI, an agent must cooperate with other agents, the research on agent modelling is important. In this paper, a multi-agent system, MAPE(Mulit-agent Processing Environment), is described, and the belief state model for an autonomous agent in the MAPE is presented. Our main focus is on the agent's structure, agent's belief and the connection between communication among agents and the changes of their belief states in the multi-agent societies where knowledge communication plays a key role among agents. We also propose some domain independent defaults for cooperating problem-solving in the communication situation by passing messages.
As a part of stock market analysis and prediction system consisted of expert system and neural networks, clustering of stock prices data is needed. This paper proposes a method of clustering of stock prices data using cascaded competitive learning neural networks. Our experiments show that the method has achieved effective clustering results for stock prices data and that the method is easy-controlled to produce clustering results which satisfy the customs of stock market analysts. The method can be used in the cases of other data which have intrinsically hierarchical cluster structures.
In this paper, a method is presented by using the neural networks and time delay embedding to identify and control the uncertain nonlinear systems with time delay. First, the order and the time delay of a model sampled from the uncertain differential system are estimated. Then observed data can be used to design a neural time delay controller and identifier.
Lightning-caused forest fires can cause serious damage to the social economy and public property and even threaten human life. Therefore, lightning-caused forest fire risk rating assessment is very important for forest management agency, because the risk rating assessment results could provide important information to prevent fires and allocate extinguishing resources. The existing forest fire risk rating assessment methods are more difficult for the area with sparse meteorological stations, imperfect lightning monitoring systems and complex terrain conditions. Based on remote sensing data and case-based reasoning principle, this paper proposed a method to overcome the limitations of existing forest fire risk rating assessment methods. The proposed method uses three dynamic and two static indexes to characterize the potential fire environment. The dynamic indexes are temperature condition index, vegetation condition index and water condition index. The static indexes are terrain fluctuation and LIS/OTD lightning density. In DaXingAn Mountains of China, the fire risk rating spatial distribution maps with 8-day cycle before the occurrences of historical lightning-caused fires were produced by using the lightning-caused forest fire risk rating assessment method during 2000-2006 in this paper. The results showed that most of the historical lightning-caused fires occurred in the region with high fire risk rating, and the spatial-temporal distribution changes of the lightning-caused fire risk rating followed the same trend as the changes in the number of lightning-caused fires. Therefore, the lightning-caused forest fire risk rating assessment method proposed in this paper could assess the fire risk rating effectively, and this method could also provide a reference for other countries and regions with sparse meteorological stations and imperfect lightning monitoring systems.
Transportation disruption is the direct result of various accidents in supply chains, which have multiple negative impacts on supply chains and member enterprises. After transportation disruption, market demand becomes highly unpredictable and thus it is necessary for enterprises to better predict market demand and optimize purchase, inventory and production. As such, this article endeavors to design an improved model of grey neural networks to help enterprises better predict market demand after transportation disruption and then the empirical study tests its feasibility. This improved model of grey neural networks exceeds the conventional grey model GM(1,1) with respect to the fact that the raw data tend to show exponential growth and data variation is required to be moderate, demonstrating the good attribute of nonlinear approximation in terms of neural networks, setting up standards for selecting the number of neurons in the input layer of BP neural networks, increasing the fitting degree and prediction accuracy and enhancing the stability and reliability of prediction. It can be applied to sequential data prediction in transportation disruption or mutation, contributing to the prediction of transportation disruption. The forecasting results can provide scientific evidence for demand prediction, inventory management and production of supply chain enterprises. Crown Copyright (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
An adaptive control scheme is investigated for a class of strict-feedback Markovian jump nonlinear systems with unknown control gains and unmodeled dynamics. To deal with the unmodeled dynamics, an available dynamic signal is employed to construct appropriate Lyapunov functions. RBF neural networks are used to approximate the unknown nonlinear functions with Markovian switching. The approximation capability of neural networks is combined with the backstepping technique to avoid the inherent problem of controller complexity in traditional backstepping design method. It is proved that all the signals in the closed-loop system are uniformly ultimately bounded in probability and that the tracking errors signal converges to a small neighborhood of origin by choosing suitable design parameters. Simulation results illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a heading controller based on a self-tuning fuzzy strategy for a robotic dolphin is proposed to improve control accuracy and stability. The structure of the robotic dolphin is introduced and the turning motion is analysed. The analytic model indicates that the turning joint angle can be employed for the heading control. This non-linear model prevents the successful application of traditional model-based controllers. A fuzzy controller is proposed to realize the heading control in our work. It should be mentioned that the traditional fuzzy controller suffers from a distinguished steady-state error, due to the fact that the heading range is relatively large and the fuzzy controller's universe of discourse is fixed. To resolve this problem, a self-tuning mechanism is employed to adjust the input and output scaling factors according to the active working region in pursuit of favourable performance. Experimental results demonstrate the performance of the proposed controller in terms of steady-state error and robustness to interferences.
Methane emission has been attracting more and more attention. Unfortunately, a lot of factors influence methane emission (chemical structure of metabolites, time, methane, gas pressure, microbiome composition, diet, etc.). We propose a new chemometric methodology to integrate different laboratory experiments in this field. Firstly, we report (1) new laboratory experiments to measure by separating (1a) methane production (gas phase), (lb) volatile fatty acid (VFA) distribution (liquid phase) and (1c) fatty acid (FA) distribution in rumen microbiome. Next, we also report a new (2) chemometric methodology that integrates all the data in a single theoretical model. The laboratory work includes two experimental sections (a) to measure the methane production, pH, gas pressure, temperature and (b) FA distribution. Section (b) includes two different experimental parts: chromatographic determination of internal peak areas (IPA%) of (b.1) long-chain fatty acids (LCFA) and (b.2) VFA. In all studies, we can use different treatments, distribution phases (media, bacteria, or protozoan microbiome), cis/trans patterns, experimental protocols, etc. Next, we combined perturbation theory (PT), linear free-energy relationships (LFER), linear discriminant analysis (LDA), and artificial neural networks (ANNs) to develop linear and non-linear models of perturbations in methane production-fatty acid distribution network. The best PT-LFER model found presented values of sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy > 0.94, and Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC) > 0.894 for 545,695 cases of perturbations in experimental data. This methodology may be useful to quantify the effect of perturbations due to the changes in experimental conditions in the study of fatty acid distribution when we need to carry out parallel experiments in different phases. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we propose a novel architecture for a deep learning system, named k-degree layer-wise network, to realize efficient geo-distributed computing between Cloud and Internet of Things (IoT). The geo-distributed computing extends Cloud to the geographical verge of the network in the neighbor of IoT. The basic ideas of the proposal include a k-degree constraint and a layer-wise constraint. The k-degree constraint is defined such that the degree of each vertex on the h-th layer is exactly k(h) to extend the existing deep belief networks and control the communication cost. The layer-wise constraint is defined such that the layer-wise degrees are monotonically decreasing in positive direction to gradually reduce the dimension of data. We prove the k-degree layer-wise network is sparse, while a typical deep neural network is dense. In an evaluation on the M-distributed MNIST database, the proposal is superior to a state-of-the-art model in terms of communication cost and learning time with scalability.
In this paper, a novel value iteration adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm, called "generalized value iteration ADP" algorithm, is developed to solve infinite horizon optimal tracking control problems for a class of discrete-time nonlinear systems. The developed generalized value iteration ADP algorithm permits an arbitrary positive semi-definite function to initialize it, which overcomes the disadvantage of traditional value iteration algorithms. Convergence property is developed to guarantee that the iterative performance index function will converge to the optimum. Neural networks are used to approximate the iterative performance index function and compute the iterative control policy, respectively, to implement the iterative ADP algorithm. Finally, a simulation example is given to illustrate the performance of the developed algorithm.
In this paper, the robust decentralized stabilization of continuous-time uncertain nonlinear systems with multi control stations is developed using a neural network based online optimal control approach. The novelty lies in that the well-known adaptive dynamic programming method is extended to deal with the nonlinear feedback control problem under uncertain and large-scale environment. Through introducing an appropriate bounded function and defining a modified cost function, it can be observed that the decentralized optimal controller of the nominal system can achieve robust decentralized stabilization of original uncertain system. Then, a critic neural network is constructed for solving the modified Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation corresponding to the nominal system in an online fashion. The weights of the critic network are tuned based on the standard steepest descent algorithm with an additional term provided to guarantee the boundedness of system states. The stability analysis of the closed-loop system is carried out via the Lyapunov approach. At last, two simulation examples are given to verify the effectiveness of the present control approach.
The optimal formation problem of multirobot systems is solved by a recurrent neural network in this paper. The desired formation is described by the shape theory. This theory can generate a set of feasible formations that share the same relative relation among robots. An optimal formation means that finding one formation from the feasible formation set, which has the minimum distance to the initial formation of the multirobot system. Then, the formation problem is transformed into an optimization problem. In addition, the orientation, scale, and admissible range of the formation can also be considered as the constraints in the optimization problem. Furthermore, if all robots are identical, their positions in the system are exchangeable. Then, each robot does not necessarily move to one specific position in the formation. In this case, the optimal formation problem becomes a combinational optimization problem, whose optimal solution is very hard to obtain. Inspired by the penalty method, this combinational optimization problem can be approximately transformed into a convex optimization problem. Due to the involvement of the Euclidean norm in the distance, the objective function of these optimization problems are nonsmooth. To solve these nonsmooth optimization problems efficiently, a recurrent neural network approach is employed, owing to its parallel computation ability. Finally, some simulations and experiments are given to validate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed optimal formation approach.
This paper is concerned with a new data-driven zero-sum neuro-optimal control problem for continuous-time unknown nonlinear systems with disturbance. According to the input-output data of the nonlinear system, an effective recurrent neural network is introduced to reconstruct the dynamics of the nonlinear system. Considering the system disturbance as a control input, a two-player zero-sum optimal control problem is established. Adaptive dynamic programming ( ADP) is developed to obtain the optimal control under the worst case of the disturbance. Three single-layer neural networks, including one critic and two action networks, are employed to approximate the performance index function, the optimal control law, and the disturbance, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of the ADP method. Convergence properties of the ADP method are developed to show that the system state will converge to a finite neighborhood of the equilibrium. The weight matrices of the critic and the two action networks are also convergent to finite neighborhoods of their optimal ones. Finally, the simulation results will show the effectiveness of the developed data-driven ADP methods.
Power systems are special multi-agent systems with nonlinear coupling function and symmetric structures. This paper extends these systems to a class of multi-agent systems with mismatched parameters, linear coupling function, and asymmetric structures and investigates their velocity synchronization via sampled position data. The dynamics of the agents is adopted as that of generators with mismatched parameters, while the system structures are supposed to be complex. Two distributed linear consensus protocols are designed, respectively, for multi-agent systems without or with communication delay. Necessary and sufficient conditions based on the sampling period, the mismatched parameters, the delay, and the nonzero eigenvalues of the Laplacian matrix are established. It is shown that velocity synchronization of multi-agent systems with mismatched parameters can be achieved if the sampled period is chosen appropriately. Simulations are given to illustrate the effectiveness of the theoretical results. (C) 2016 AIP Publishing LLC.
One of the main applications of mobile robots is the large-scale perception of the outdoor environment. One of the main challenges of this application is fusing environmental data obtained by multiple robots, especially heterogeneous robots. This paper proposes an enhanced iterative closest point (ICP) method for the fast and accurate registration of 3D environmental models. First, a hierarchical searching scheme is combined with the octree-based ICP algorithm. Second, an early-warning mechanism is used to perceive the local minimum problem. Third, a heuristic escape scheme based on sampled potential transformation vectors is used to avoid local minima and achieve optimal registration. Experiments involving one unmanned aerial vehicle and one unmanned surface vehicle were conducted to verify the proposed technique. The experimental results were compared with those of normal ICP registration algorithms to demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed method.
A screw drive in-pipe robot is promising inspection equipment for small pipes. However, most of the existing screw drive in-pipe robots have problems of motion interference and slipping inside curved or irregular pipes. These problems result from the coupled relations among the steering motion, the motion speed and the load ability of the robot. In order to deal with the problems, the axiomatic design (AD) theory is applied to evaluate and analyze the existing designs. Then an uncoupled concept design based on the AD theory is proposed and the complete AD decomposition process is presented. After that, the proposed robot based on a tri-axial differential angle modulation mechanism is designed to realize the uncoupled concept. Finally, the uncoupled property is verified in a dynamics simulation system. The simulation results indicate that the motion speed, load ability and steering motion of the proposed robot can be adjusted individually compared with the robots that have inclining-angle-fixed rollers. Owing to the uncoupled design, the proposed robot can mechanically adapt to straight pipes and curved pipes with less roller slipping.
With a booming development characterized by new urbanization in current China, urban water consumption attracts growing concerns. An efficient and probabilistic prediction of urban water consumption plays a vital role for urban planning toward sustainable development, especially in megacities limited by water resources. However, the data insufficiency issue commonly exists nowadays and seriously restricts further development of urban water simulation. In this article, we proposed a consolidated framework for probabilistic prediction of water consumption under an incompletely informational circumstance to deal with the challenge. The model was constructed based on a state-of-the-art Bayesian neural networks (BNNs) technique. Three dominated influencing factors were identified and included into the BNN model. Future impact factors were generated by using a variety of methods including a quadratic polynomial model, a regression and auto-regressive moving average combination model and a Grey Verhulst model. Thereafter, water consumption projection (2013-2020) and uncertainty estimates was done. Results showed that the model matched well with observations. Through reducing the dependence on large amount of information and constructing a probabilistic means incorporating uncertainty estimation, the new approach can work better than conventional means in support of water resources planning and management under an incompletely informational circumstance.
An implicit assumption in many generic object trackers is that the videos are blur free. However, motion blur is very common in real videos. The performance of a generic object tracker may drop significantly when it is applied to videos with severe motion blur. In this paper, we propose a new Tracking-Learning-Data approach to transfer a generic object tracker to a blur-invariant object tracker without deblurring image sequences. Before object tracking, a large set of unlabeled images is used to learn objects' visual prior knowledge, which is then transferred to the appearance model of a specific target. During object tracking, online training samples are collected from the tracking results and the context information. Different blur kernels are involved with the training samples to increase the robustness of the appearance model to severe blur, and the motion parameters of the object are estimated in the particle filter framework. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm can robustly track objects not only in severely blurred videos but also in other challenging scenes.
Risk management for safety in mountain tunnel construction is of great significance. However, existing research lags behind engineering applications. In this paper, the risk of mountain tunnel collapse is used as an example to illustrate a new assessment method based on case-based reasoning, advanced geological prediction, and rough set theory. First, the risk surroundings and risk factors involved in tunnel collapse are integrated and summarized, and a risk assessment index system is established for tunnel collapse. At the same time, because the dynamic response parameters obtained by the advanced geological prediction usually indicate a typical geological structure, sensitive response parameters are introduced in the assessment index system. Advanced risk assessment can be performed for tunnel sections at a certain distance ahead of the tunnel face. Second, the major risk surroundings and the advanced geological prediction results are analyzed for the tunnel under assessment. Cases with similar attribute characteristics are selected via comparison with previous cases. Attribute reduction and calculation of weights are subsequently performed for the risk surroundings and risk factors of similar cases based on the attribute significance theory of rough sets. Finally, index screening and objective weights are applied in the fuzzy comprehensive assessment model. The results of this paper can be used to improve the theoretical level and reliability of risk assessment in tunnel safety and serve as a reference for tunnel construction.
This paper is concerned with the coordination control of multiple biomimetic robotic fish in highly dynamic aquatic environments by building a hybrid centralized system. With the aid of the results of biorobotics and control techniques, a radio-controlled multijoint robotic fish and its locomotion control are developed. To enable a closed control loop, a visual subsystem that is responsible for tracking of multiple moving objects is constructed and implemented in real time. Furthermore, a behavior-based hierarchical architecture in conjunction with fuzzy reinforcement learning is proposed to accomplish effective coordination among multiple swimming robots. Finally, experiments on 2vs2 water polo game are carried out to verify the proposed coordination control scheme. Over the past eight years, this multirobot platform has been successfully applied to international underwater robot competitions to promote innovative research and education in underwater robotics.
This paper demonstrates a new interpretation of the material purchasing management system (MPMS) from the perspective of complex adaptive systems (CAS). Within the framework of CAS, the authors design the self-adaptive mechanism of the MPMS responding to the changing environment, such as the change of the price, by using risk measurement theory, modern portfolio theory (MPT) and the information of the material's modifying priority. As a bottom-up systems view, CAS focuses on the individual level and studies system's overall complexity by analyzing the mutual competition and adaptation among the individuals. This paper demonstrates a quantitative description of CAS by discussing theMPMS which can be viewed as a kind of CAS, and makes numerical simulations of Daqing oilfield MPMS. Compared to the benchmarks, the authors set the simulations show that the self-adaptive mechanism adapts well to the change of the material's market price. Hence, this paper accomplishes a numerical simulation of CAS's quantitative self-adaptive mechanism responding to the environment's change.
Extreme learning machine (ELM) algorithm is used to train Single-hidden Layer Feed forward Neural Networks. And Deep Belief Network (DBN) is based on Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM). The conventional DBN algorithm has some insufficiencies, i.e., Contrastive Divergence (CD) Algorithm is not an ideal approximation method to Maximum Likelihood Estimation. And bad parameters selected in RBM algorithm will produce a bad initialization in DBN model so that we will spend more training time and get a low classification accuracy. To solve the problems above, we summarize the features of extreme learning machine and deep belief networks, and then propose Incremental extreme learning machine based on Deep Feature Embedded algorithm which combines the deep feature extracting ability of Deep Learning Networks with the feature mapping ability of extreme learning machine. Firstly, we introduce Manifold Regularization to our model to attenuate the complexity of probability distribution. Secondly, we introduce the semi-restricted Boltzmann machine (SRBM) to our algorithm, and build a deep belief network based on SRBM. Thirdly, we introduce the thought of incremental feature mapping in ELM to the classifier of DBN model. Finally, we show validity of the algorithm by experiments.
In recent years, an expansion of irrigated agriculture and rapid population growth have threatened the Tarim River basin's natural ecosystems and caused water shortages. Improving the water resources management in the basin requires accurate seasonal precipitation forecasts. Based on previous research, possible predictors of precipitation were selected and either downloaded directly or calculated using NCEP/NCAR Reanalysis 1 or NOAA Extended Reconstructed Sea Surface Temperature (SST) V3b data. Predictors were correlated with precipitation data, provided by the National Climate Centre of the China Meteorological Administration for the period 1961 to 2010 and averaged over the subbasins of the Tarim River. The Spearman rank correlation analyses with lead times of up to six months (or two seasons) revealed significant (at the 1% level) and strong (rho <= -0.6 or rho >= 0.6) correlations of precipitation in all subbasins with the SST and monsoon indices as well as with the Siberian High Intensity (SHI) and the Westerly Circulation Index (WCI). Lastly, we demonstrate the setup of a forecast model based on a multiple linear regression on the example of the Hotan River subbasin. This model predicts precipitation 5 months in advance with reasonable accuracy in two out of three configurations. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper presents an approach to predicting three-dimensional (3D) variation of soil organic matter (SOM) concentration by integrating a similarity-based method with depth functions. It was tested in a small hilly landscape. A depth function model was constructed to fit SOM profile distribution using a linear relation in the topsoil and a power function in the subsoil. Then, under the assumption that similar environmental conditions at two sites would lead to the development of similar profile morphologies and thus similar depth function parameters, the similarity-based method was used to spatially interpolate the depth function parameters based on their relationships with environmental variables. With the values of the parameters for every location, a 3D map of SOM distribution was generated. The predicted SOM pattern well reproduced the statistical distribution of the pedon dataset used in this study. The overall mean error (ME) was 0.06 g kg(-1) and ratio of performance to deviation (RPD) was 2.34. We conclude that the proposed approach is effective and accurate for 3D SOM prediction. It overcomes two drawbacks of the frequently used pseudo 3D soil mapping approach: (1) the neglect of vertical soil pattern when performing horizontal soil predictions, and (2) the repeated applications of depth function fittings in the mapping process, both of which may lead to prediction errors. Moreover, the similarity-based method is a transparent and traceable prediction process, allowing for easy interpretation of its results. This is useful for understanding soil-environmental relationships and processes. The method thus is an attractive alternative to the commonly used non-linear "black-box" techniques such as artificial neural networks. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper addresses the cooperative path-following problem of multiple marine surface vehicles subject to dynamical uncertainties and ocean disturbances induced by unknown wind, wave and ocean current. The control design falls neatly into two parts. One is to steer individual marine surface vehicle to track a predefined path and the other is to synchronise the along-path speed and path variables under the constraints of an underlying communication network. Within these two formulations, a robust adaptive path-following controller is first designed for individual vehicles based on backstepping and neural network techniques. Then, a decentralised synchronisation control law is derived by means of consensus on along-path speed and path variables based on graph theory. The distinct feature of this design lies in that synchronised path following can be reached for any undirected connected communication graphs without accurate knowledge of the model. This result is further extended to the output feedback case, where an observer-based cooperative path-following controller is developed without measuring the velocity of each vehicle. For both designs, rigorous theoretical analysis demonstrate that all signals in the closed-loop system are semi-global uniformly ultimately bounded. Simulation results validate the performance and robustness improvement of the proposed strategy.
A novel sampling pool selection scheme is proposed for the online sequential extreme learning machine (OS-ELM) based on improved Gath-Geva (IGG) fuzzy segmentation algorithm. Tidal change is a time-varying process whose dynamics vary with changes of internal and environmental factors such as celestial bodies movements, coastal topology and environmental disturbances. When OS-ELM is implemented for identifying time-varying system dynamics, it usually sequentially selects samples with fixed number. Under such circumstance, samples representing different system dynamics are mixed together so that the online representation and prediction abilities of OS-ELM may be deteriorated. To consciously select samples with most representing ability and construct appropriate sampling pool for OS-ELM, in this study, a dynamic sampling pool selection scheme is proposed based on IGG fuzzy segmentation approach. Time series of input and output variables are segmented as per their dynamics characteristics. The change points split up the time series into several segments and the change points themselves represent the changes of system dynamics. Samples within the same segment are considered as possessing homogeneous characteristics. To achieve best representing abilities for current system dynamics, the proposed IGG-based sampling scheme is implemented for selecting sampling pool. The OS-ELM selects homogeneous samples from sampling pool thus possesses better representing ability for current dynamics. In the meantime, conventional harmonic analysis is also applied to represent the influences of celestial bodies and coastal topology. The harmonic method and IGG-based OS-ELM are combined together and the resulted modular prediction scheme is applied for online tidal level prediction of ports of King Point, Mokuoloe and Old Port Tampa in the United States. Simulation results demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed sampling scheme and the modular tidal prediction approach. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper proposes a learning algorithm called Semi-supervised Online Sequential ELM, denoted as SOS-ELM. It aims to provide a solution for streaming data applications by learning from just the newly arrived observations, called a chunk. In addition, SOS-ELM can utilize both labeled and unlabeled training data by combining the advantages of two existing algorithms: Online Sequential ELM (OS-ELM) and Semi-Supervised ELM (SS-ELM). The rationale behind our algorithm exploits an optimal condition to alleviate empirical risk and structure risk used by SS-ELM, in combination with block calculation of matrices similar to OS-ELM. Efficient implementation of the SOS-ELM algorithm is made viable by an additional assumption that there is negligible structural relationship between chunks from different times. Experiments have been performed on standard benchmark problems for regression, balanced binary classification, unbalanced binary classification and multi-class classification by comparing the performance of the proposed SOS-ELM with OS-ELM and SS-ELM. The experimental results show that the SOS-ELM outperforms OS-ELM in generalization performance with similar training speed, and in addition outperforms SS-ELM with much lower supervision overheads. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A neural-network-based distributed control algorithm is established for bipartite consensus of the nonlinear multi-agent systems with time delays. By using a backstepping technique, a desired reference signal is introduced. Then, neural networks are used to learn the unknown nonlinear dynamics of the multi-agent systems. In order to eliminate the effects of time delays, the information of a constructed Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional is included in the distributed control algorithm. However, it can induce singularities in the distributed control algorithm. Therefore, a a-function is utilized to circumvent this problem. With the developed distributed control algorithm, bipartite consensus can be reached if the communication graph is structurally balanced. Finally, simulation examples are conducted to demonstrate the validity of the main theorem. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We have investigated a novel methodology using the extreme learning machine (ELM) algorithm to determine the a abundance of stars. Applying two methods based on the ELM algorithm-ELM+spectra and ELM+Lick indices-to the stellar spectra from the ELODIE database, we measured the a abundance with a precision better than 0.065 dex. By applying these two methods to the spectra with different signal-to-noise ratios (S/Ns) and different resolutions, we found that ELM+spectra is more robust against degraded resolution and ELM+Lick indices is more robust against. variation in S/N. To further validate the performance of ELM, we applied ELM+spectra and ELM+Lick indices to SDSS spectra and estimated a abundances with a precision around 0.10 dex, which is comparable to the results given by the SEGUE Stellar Parameter Pipeline. We further applied ELM to the spectra of stars in Galactic globular clusters (M15, M13, M71) and open clusters (NGC 2420, M67, NGC 6791), and results show good agreement with previous studies (within 1s). A comparison of the ELM with other widely used methods including support vector machine, Gaussian process regression, artificial neural networks, and linear least-squares regression shows that ELM is efficient with computational resources and more accurate than other methods.
This paper is concerned with the approximate solution of Hamilton-Jacobi-Isaacs (HJI) equation for constrained-input nonlinear continuous-time systems with unknown dynamics. We develop a novel online adaptive dynamic programming-based algorithm to learn the solution of the HJI equation. The present algorithm is implemented via an identifier-critic architecture, which consists of two neural networks (NNs): an identifier NN is applied to estimate the unknown system dynamics and a critic NN is constructed to obtain the approximate solution of the HJI equation. An advantage of the proposed architecture is that the identifier NN and the critic NN are tuned simultaneously. With introducing two additional terms, namely, the stabilizing term and the robustifying term to update the critic NN, the initial stabilizing control is no longer required. Meanwhile, the developed critic tuning rule not only ensures convergence of the critic to the optimal saddle point but also guarantees stability of the closed-loop system. Moreover, the uniform ultimate boundedness of the weights of the identifier NN and the critic NN are proved by using Lyapunov's direct method. Finally, to illustrate the effectiveness and applicability of the developed approach, two simulation examples are provided. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recent progresses on a new generation density functional XYG3 and the construction of potential energy surfaces using neural networks are reviewed in this article. Using H3 and CH, systems as illustrative examples, it is concluded that highly reliable dynamics results can be obtained from the combination of electronic structure calculations based on efficient and accurate density functionals and accurate potential energy surfaces using neural networks. It holds promise for future applications in larger and more complicated systems.
The relationship linking leaf physiognomy and climate has long been used in paleoclimatic reconstructions, but current models lose precision when worldwide data sets are considered because of the broader range of physiognomies that occur under the wider range of climate types represented. Our aim is to improve the predictive power of leaf physiognomy to yield climate signals, and here we explore the use of an algorithm based on the general regression neural network (GRNN), which we refer to as Climate Leaf Analysis with Neural Networks (CLANN). We then test our algorithm on Climate Leaf Analysis Multivariate Program (CLAMP) data sets and digital leaf physiognomy (DLP) data sets, and compare our results with those obtained from other computation methods. We explore the contribution of different physiognomic characters and test fossil sites from North America. The CLANN algorithm introduced here gives high predictive precision for all tested climatic parameters in both data sets. For the CLAMP data set neural network analysis improves the predictive capability as measured by R-2, to 0.86 for MAT on a worldwide basis, compared to 0.71 using the vector-based approach used in the standard analysis. Such a high resolution is attained due to the nonlinearity of the method, but at the cost of being susceptible to 'noise' in the calibration data. Tests show that the predictions are repeatable, and robust to information loss and applicable to fossil leaf data. The CLANN neural network algorithm used here confirms, and better resolves, the global leaf form-climate relationship, opening new approaches to paleoclimatic reconstruction and understanding the evolution of complex leaf function. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Accurate wind speed forecasting, which strongly influences the safe usage of wind resources, is still a critical issue and a huge challenge. At present, the single-valued deterministic NWP forecast is primarily adopted by wind farms; however, recent techniques cannot meet the actual needs of grid dispatch in many cases. This paper contributes to a new multi-step forecasting method for operational wind forecast, 96-steps of the next day, termed the CS-FS-WRF-E model, which is based on a Weather Research and Forecasting (WRF) ensemble forecast, a novel Fuzzy System, and a Cuckoo Search (CS) algorithm. First, the WRF ensemble, which considers three horizontal resolutions and four initial fields, using a 0.5 degrees horizontal grid-spacing Global Forecast System (GFS) model output, is constructed as the basic forecasting results. Then, a novel fuzzy system, which can extract the features of these ensembles, is built under the concept of membership degrees. With the help of CS optimization, the final model is constructed using this evolutionary algorithm to adjust and correct the results obtained based on physical laws, yielding the best forecasting performance and outperforming individual ensemble members and all of the other models for comparison. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a stabilized-region regulator method is presented to solve the output synchronization problem for discrete-time multi-agent systems. The topology structure for the information communication of the agents contains a spanning tree. The innovation of our result is that a stabilized region is designed for discrete-time multi-agent systems and the synchronization problem could be solved by choosing the appropriate parameters. A distributed dynamic feedback control law is designed such that the distribution of the eigenvalues of Laplacian matrix could be regulated into the specified region, then some sufficient conditions used to guarantee output synchronization are presented. At last, the result is extended to the uncertain multi-agent systems. Finally, a numerical, simulation is given to demonstrate the correctness of obtained results. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, the problem of stability and passivity analysis for uncertain discrete-time neural networks with time-varying delay is investigated. By constructing a new Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional and employing a novel summation inequality which is a discrete-time counterpart of the Wirtinger-based integral inequality, a less conservative robust stability criterion is derived in terms of linear matrix inequalities. Furthermore, a new sufficient condition is established to assure the considered neural networks to be passive. Several numerical examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Cooperative games provide a framework for fair and stable profit allocation in multi-agent systems. Core, least-core and nucleolus are such solution concepts that characterize stability of cooperation. In this paper, we study the algorithmic issues of the least-core and nucleolus of threshold cardinality matching games (TCMG). A TCMG is defined on a graph G = (V, E) and a threshold T, in which the player set is V and the profit of a coalition S subset of V is I if the size of a maximum matching in G[S] meets or exceeds T, and 0 otherwise.
A new three-dimensional potential energy surface (PES) of the Ar-N-2 van der Waals complex is constructed using the neural network method based on ab initio data points at the CCSD(T) level. The aug-cc-pVQZ basis set is employed for all atoms with midbond functions. The vibrationally averaged PES V-00 is characterised by a global T-shaped minimum which occurs at R= 3.715 angstrom, = 90.0 degrees with a well depth of 98.779 cm(-1). Based on our three-dimensional PES, bound-state calculations are performed for three isotopomers of Ar-N-14(2), Ar-N-15(2), and Ar-(NN)-N-14-N-15, and several intermolecular vibrational states are assigned by analysing the wavefunctions. Moreover, the averaged structural parameters are calculated and the pure rotational transition frequencies with J = 0--6 are predicted. The spectroscopic constants are determined by fitting the rotational energy levels. The theoretical results are in good agreement with experimental data and this work gives more accurate results than those determined previously for the Ar-N-2 complex.
Managing air passenger traffic flows is important in investing and operation of airports. However, it is extremely difficult for traditional methods to analyse passenger traffic in both the short and medium terms because of the oscillation and irregularity inherent in air passenger traffic flows dynamics. In this study, we design a hybrid oscillations analysis approach. The proposed method decomposes time series into different scales, making it useful in revealing structural breaks and volatility clusters, and identifying dynamic properties of a process at specific timescales. A case study of Hong Kong airport demonstrates and validates the feasibility of applying the proposed models. Empirical results have confirmed that the proposed model is superior to other competing models and can provide high flexibility in decision-making.
The limited underwater observation scenarios pose great challenges to the problem of object recognition from the low-resolution underwater images. This paper proposes a framework to explicitly learn the discriminative features from relatively low resolution images, by resorting to deep learning approaches and super-resolution method. Firstly, the framework tackles the problem of limited discriminative information of low resolution images by a single-image super resolution method. Then state-of-the-art deep learning approaches are employed to learn recognition models for the special underwater fish recognition task. The proposed framework can be effectively implemented for real-time underwater object recognition on autonomous underwater vehicles. To verify the effectiveness of our method, experiments on a public underwater image dataset of fishes are carried out. The results show that our framework achieves promising results for fish recognition on underwater image datasets.
Most exiting algorithm focused on the specific emitter identification, neglected the state identification of emitter. However, using the fingerprinting to identify and estimate the user behavior is useful in many legitimate scenes. While the emitter is moving or shaking, a certain amount of vibrations are generated, which can be investigated as the basis of state identification. However, the subtle vibrations are difficult to capture. In this paper, we propose a novel state analysis technique to identify the state of emitter based on transient signal. The transient signal from the target emitters contains import special information. In order to find the subtle difference, 1-D convolution neural networks (CNNs) is introduced to extract the latent features adaptively. Experimental results have shown that our method can work for specific state identification.
Robots attract strong interest from human beings, and ordinary people seriously expect to acquire intuitive understanding from the process of interacting with robots. In this paper, a teleoperation framework based on gesture recognition was developed and the recognized human gestures were mapped to corresponding swimming behaviors of underwater robotic fish. By this means, the robotic fish can be remotely controlled by hand gestures. Most significantly, the teleoperation framework offers the opportunity for onlookers to directly interact with the robotic fish, and the intuitive experience of onlookers about human-robot interaction can be augmented. Compared with traditional control structures of underwater robotic fish systems, the presented teleoperation framework can be built quickly, the influence of light condition can be eliminated entirely, and the onlookers can interact with robotic fish directly rather than need to learn about the system architecture and control strategy. Several tests were taken in a water pool to verify the performance of the presented teleoperation framework. The experimental results showed that the developed teleoperation framework is suitable for remote controlling underwater robotic fish, and the teleoperation framework can be widely applied to other application scenarios. The experiment setup was exhibited in IROS2015, Hamburg, the described teleoperation framework greatly attracted onlooker's interest.
3D LiDAR is widely used for mobile robots environment perception nowadays, which has high precision of distance measurement. In this paper, a calibration method which is suitable for Velodyne VLP-16 is firstly introduced. And then we utilize statistical filtering for isolated points removal. After statistical filtering, a slope location and orientation estimation method is presented based on PROSAC algorithm, which can achieve plane extraction from the 3D point cloud data. Experiments are conducted to testify the performance of the presented method.
A robot may be at the risk of falling from a high place when it works in an unknown complex environment, so the attitude control ability of the robot in the air should be considered to reduce the damage caused by the wrong dropping posture. When a cat drops in the upside-down posture with zero angular momentum, it can always right itself and land on its feet safely. Inspired by this biological phenomenon, we studied the optimal falling trajectory for adjusting the attitude of the falling cat robot. Firstly, we formulated a mathematical model based on the twisted model of two identical axially symmetric rigid cylinders, owing to nonintegrable conservation laws, a problem for controlling the attitude of the falling cat robot could be transformed to the problem of the nonholonomic motion planning. Then, taking the energy cost of the joint of the system as the optimal control function to find a control torque input, which was approximated by the spline approximation, with the method one can solve the problem that the initial and terminal values of control torque input are not zero. We found the optimal solution of control function through particle swarm optimization. Finally, we carried out numerical simulation, and the result shows the spline approximation is a valid method for trajectory planning of the falling cat robot.
With the development of rotor aerial robot, it has been widely used as a stabilized flying platform to achieve observation, communication relay and so on by equipping corresponding equipment, which are always called passive tasks. However, many applications need rotor aerial robots to possess more active capability, such as grasp, carry and assemblage. Thus, the demand for an aerial manipulation system gradually appears, and becomes a hot research issue in recent years. Aerial manipulator system, usually composed of rotor aerial robot and the manipulator, is a new type of robot system with active operating capability. Compared with the mobile manipulator based on the ground and underwater mobile robot which is now widely applied, the aerial manipulation has lager working range and better flexibility obviously. Unfortunately, the new aerial manipulation system also brings new challenges, such as strong dynamics coupling, the modeling and stabilization problem, etc. which may affect its further application. Thus, in our work, an actual physical aerial manipulator system is designed and implemented for its system and application research. Based on the system, the preliminary modeling and control was researched and also an experiment for grasping and carry application is conducted. The conclusions of these researches will help us to realize and improve the system in the future.
The aerial manipulator is a new kind of UAV system composed of an aerial robot and a multi-link manipulator. It enables the traditional aerial robots to perform fine manipulation, and thus has great potential for many real applications. However, one of the most challenging problems of the aerial manipulator system is the high performance steady control. Its difficulties mainly come from the heavy dynamics couplings between the aerial robot and the manipulator, especially when quick relative motion is required. Thus in this paper, the modeling and motion control problem of the aerial manipulator is studied. Firstly, a new modeling scheme is proposed by using the concept of Varying Inertial Parameters (VIP), the main idea of which is to take the influence of coupling on the aerial robot as a group of state dependent inertial parameters, i.e., the Center of Mass (CoM) and inertia matrix of the aerial robot is varying with the relative state variance. Subsequently, based on the VIP model, a feedforward compensation H infinity controller is designed to implement the steady flight of the whole system with relative movement. Finally, simulations are conducted and the feasibility and validity of the new proposed scheme is shown.
In this paper, a Cartesian admittance controller with on-line gravity and friction observer compensation based on passivity theory for elastic joint robots is proposed. For this study, a compliance and position controller for joint and Cartesian level has been described with dual loop construction: an outer-loop admittance control, and an inner-loop motor side position with torque feedback control. In terms of torque feedback, a physical interpretation is addressed and analyzed. Regarding as admittance controller of the elastic joint, two type (stiffness and damping) of the systematic control model can be represented. In addition to an on-line gravity compensation based-on output-side encodes has been proposed. Moreover, in order to achieve high trajectory tracking performance, a friction observer based compensation is applied also. Furthermore, aimed at the control performance of the stiffness, damping, and admittance control algorithm are assessed by a simulation, respectively. Finally, the simulation studies reveal a better effect regarding as the position tracking and torque output in contrast to without friction passivity algorithm and proportional-derivative (PD) control. In addition, the response of proposed compliance control method is effective for external force.
Tendon sheath actuation is widely used in the minimally invasive surgery (MIS) robotic system, particularly in the single port laparoscopy (SPL) and the natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) robots. The force propagation from the proximal end to distal end is the most important characters for the tendon sheath actuation, and the friction is a major problem. In this paper, a classical friction model is presented at first. A series of experiments are carried out to verify the correctness of model. Some factors like the pulling velocity, the tendon diameter and the sheath curvature, which are not considered in the model are also tested in the experiments. The results show that some of these factors also have effect on the friction. A modified friction model is presented to adjust the different tendon diameters.
The in-pipe cleaning robot (IPCR) is a new equipment for pipelines cleaning. However, most existing in-pipe robots are used to inspection and simple maintenance, etc. They cannot effectively complete the pipelines cleaning works, especially large diameter pipelines. This paper proposes a novel wheeled and wall-pressing type IPCR equipped with new high pressure water jet cleaning device. The whole mechanisms of the proposed IPCR are designed and a novel preload mechanism is applied to guarantee the IPCR reach to the target operation distance. Based on the multi-body theory, the contact mechanisms model is built. The motion equation and differential-algebraic equations of the IPCR system are obtained respectively. To verify the effect of the high pressure water jet cleaning jet on the motion stability of the IPCR, the virtual simulation platform is established in software RecurDyn and some simulation experiments are carried out. The results show that under the condition of sufficient preload force, the high pressure water jet cleaning device starts after the main body runs stable, which can guarantee the global motion stability.
Recovering object pose is of great importance to many higher level tasks such as robotic manipulation, scene understanding and augmented reality to name a few. Following the recent major breakthroughs in many computer vision tasks made by the deep learning, intensive research to experiment with it also in the task of recovering object pose is conducting. This paper aims to review the state-of-the-art progress on deep learning based pose estimation methods. Firstly, we introduce some popular datasets together with their relevant attributes. Secondly, the deep learning based pose estimation methods are summarized and categorized, and detailed descriptions of representative methods are provided, and their pros and cons are examined. Thirdly, evaluation protocol and comparable performance of reviewed approaches are given. Finally, we highlight the advantages of deep learning based pose estimation methods and provide insights for future.
In this paper, a human recognition method based on soft biometrics is proposed for the human following robot. Two soft biometric traits (clothes color and body size) are calculated as features of the human. First, the human region detected by the Kinect is segmented to obtain the torso and leg parts of the body. Then the weighted HSV histograms of the body parts are calculated to describe the clothes color information. Body height, arm length and shoulder width values are measured to represent the body size information. Finally, human recognition is implemented by evaluating the similarity among the objects. The effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method is verified by the experiments. And the robot system with the recognition method can recognize and follow a human target reliably.
Robotics has yet become an advanced and reliable technology widely deployed in practical application of power transmission lines inspection for the purpose of stretching the reach of the lineman's arm and eyes. However, as in some hostile environments, excellent climbing performance and maneuverability remain as the greatest challenges and always can't be achieved simultaneously for the existing inspection robots. To overcome the problem, this paper presents a novel bionic robot mechanism on the basis of imitating human beings climb up the tree. After a brief introduction of environment features and motion requirements, the climbing motion of human beings is studied and the mechanical design of robot is accomplished. And then the kinematics equations are deduced, the force conditions are discussed and optimized. Furthermore, the motion sequences of negotiating two kind of typical obstacles are planned. Finally, some simulation has been carried out and the simulation results show that the mechanism can achieved the expected goals.
Pose estimation and 3D environment reconstruction are crucial for autonomous navigation in mobile robotics. Robust dense visual odometry based on a RGB-D sensor uses all pixels to estimate frame-to-frame motion by minimizing the photometric and geometric error. 3D coordinates of each pixel are calculated necessarily with its corresponding depth. However, depths of some pixels near object boundaries from RGB-D sensors are not accurate. The general robust dense visual odometry does not consider depth noise impact for photometric error and geometric error. In this paper, we construct uncertainties of photometric error and geometric error with depth noise and point out depth noise near object boundaries can significantly affect the result of motion estimation. We present a modified robust dense visual odometry with boundary pixel suppression. Publicly available benchmark datasets are employed to evaluate our system, and results showed that our method achieves higher accuracy compared with the state-ofthe- art Dense Visual Odometry (DVO).
Body activity interaction plays an essential role in the field of intelligent robots. In this paper, we design a body activity interaction system for a service robot. In order to realize body activity interaction, the Microsoft Kinect is utilized to capture owner body movements and provide input signals of the action recognition module. Based on the RGBD and skeleton information from Microsoft Kinect, action recognition module can analyze meaning of owner body movements effectively and send orders to service robot quickly. Besides, kinematics model of the service robotic arm is built and the motion planning on the joint space is also executed. Finally, service robot receives orders and conducts robotic arm to implement handshaking or hand waving. Extensive experiments illustrate the correctness and effectiveness of our developed body activity interaction system on the platform of service robot.
Recently service robots are becoming a part of our daily life. There is a huge market for robot since many human friendly service robots are designed. In this paper we describe a system of Simultaneous Localization and Mapping(SLAM) on restaurant service robot using a depth camera and a move base with odometry and gyro. We create a virtual laserscan from the depth camera, which provides depth image to be converted into 2D laser scan. Meanwhile, the color image provided by the depth camera could be used to extract feature descriptions which will be used in the loop closure process. The depth camera act as a low cost laser scanner and a RGB camera in this case. Our method is under particle filter frame. The robot builds map incrementally when exploring new environment. This make it can accurately locate itself in the working environment and complete routine navigation tasks autonomously. We will introduce the fundamental mathematical model and conduct experiments to show it.
Video surveillance based crowd counting is important for crowd management and public security. It is a challenge task due to the cluttered background, ambiguous foreground and diverse crowd distributions. In this paper, we propose an end-to-end crowd counting method with convolutional neural networks, which integrates original frames and motion cues for learning a deep crowd counting regressor. The original frames and motion cues are complementary to each other for counting the stationary and moving pedestrians. Experimental results on two widely-used crowd counting datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method, and achieve the state-of-the-art performance.
In this paper, we present a model that automatically differentiates copied versions of original images. Unlike traditional image copy detection schemes, our system is a Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) based model which means that it does not need any manually-designed features. In addition, a convolutional network is more applicable to image copy detection whose architecture is designed for robustness to geometric distortions. Our model uses fully connected layers to compute a similarity between CNN features, which are extracted from image pairs by a deep convolutional network. This method is very efficient and scalable to large databases. In order to see the comparison visually, a variety of models are explored. Experimental results demonstrate that our model presents surprising performance on various data sets.
In this paper we propose a fully convolutional encoder-decoder framework for image residual transformation tasks. Instead of only using per-pixel loss function, the proposed framework learn end-to-end mapping combined with perceptual loss function that depend on low-level features from a pre-trained network. Pointing out the mapping function in order to handle noise-free image by introduce identity mapping. And through an analysis of the interplay between the neural networks and the underlying noisy distribution which they seeking to learn. We also show how to construct a uniform transform, which is then used to make a single deep neural network work well across different levels of noise. Comparing with previous approaches, ours achieves better performance. The experimental results indicate the efficiency of the proposed algorithm to cope with image denoising tasks.
A good representation of the audio is important for music genre classification. Deep neural networks (DNN) enable a better approach to learn the representation of audio. The representation learned from DNN, which is known as bottleneck feature, is widely used for speech and audio related application. However, in general, it needs a large amount of transcribed data to learn an effective bottleneck feature extractor. While, in reality, the amount of transcribed data is often limited. In this paper, we investigate a semi-supervised learning to train the bottleneck feature for music data. Then, the bottleneck feature is used for music genre classification. Since the target dataset contains few data, which cannot be used train a reliable bottleneck DNN, we train the DNN bottleneck extractor on a large out-of-domain un-transcribed dataset in semi-supervised way. Experimental results show that with the learned bottleneck feature, the proposed system can perform better than the state-of-the-art best methods on GTZAN dataset.
License plate detection is a crucial part in license plate recognition systems and is often considered as a solved problem. However, there are still plenty of complex scenes where the current methods are invalidated. In order to increase the performance in these scenes, we propose a novel character-based method to detect multiple license plates in complex images. Firstly, a preprocessing step is performed. Then we use a modified maximally stable extremal region (MSER) based detector called MSER-+ to detect the possible character regions. Some of the regions are removed according to their geographical information. Hierarchical morphology helps to connect candidate MSERs of various sizes. The regions satisfying some geographical limits will be fed into a convolutional neural network (CNN) model for further verification. Extensive experimental results validate that our method works well in a large variety of complex scenes.
Emotion recognition is a significant research filed of pattern recognition and artificial intelligence. The Multimodal Emotion Recognition Challenge (MEC) is a part of the 2016 Chinese Conference on Pattern Recognition (CCPR). The goal of this competition is to compare multimedia processing and machine learning methods for multimodal emotion recognition. The challenge also aims to provide a common benchmark data set, to bring together the audio and video emotion recognition communities, and to promote the research in multimodal emotion recognition. The data used in this challenge is the Chinese Natural Audio-Visual Emotion Database (CHEAVD), which is selected from Chinese movies and TV programs. The discrete emotion labels are annotated by four experienced assistants. Three sub-challenges are defined: audio, video and multimodal emotion recognition. This paper introduces the baseline audio, visual features, and the recognition results by Random Forests.
The combination of traditional methods (e.g., ACF) and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) has achieved great success in pedestrian detection. Despite effectiveness, design of this method is intricate. In this paper, we present an end-to-end network based on Faster R-CNN and neural cascade classifier for pedestrian detection. Different from Faster R-CNN that only makes use of the last convolutional layer, we utilize features from multiple layers and feed them to a neural cascade classifier. Such an architecture favors more low-level features and implements a hard negative mining process in the network. Both of these two factors are important in pedestrian detection. The neural cascade classifier is jointly trained with the Faster R-CNN in our unifying network. The proposed network achieves comparable performance to the state-of-the-art on Caltech pedestrian dataset with a more concise framework and faster processing speed. Meanwhile, the detection result obtained by our method is tighter and more accurate.
Goal-oriented adaptation provides a powerful mechanism to develop self-adaptive systems, enabling systems to keep satisfying user goals in a dynamically changing environment. The goal-oriented approach normally reduces the adaptation planning as a global optimization process and leaves the system the task of determining the actions required to achieve the goals. However, the high computation cost of global optimization prevents a self-adaptive system from quickly adjusting itself to the dynamically changing environment at runtime, which is intolerable since efficiency of planning is of utmost importance in most self-adaptive systems. On the other hand, rule-based adaptation has the advantage of efficient planning process since it predefines the adaptation logic by rules instead of leaving the system the task of reasoning. To combine the advantages of both approaches, we propose a novel adaptation framework that can integrate goal model into rule-based adaptation to make user goals to be better satisfied efficiently. We have applied the framework to design a self-adaptive e-commerce website. Our experimental results show that the proposed framework outperforms both the traditional goal-oriented approach and the traditional rule-based approach in terms of adaptation efficiency and effectiveness.
With the development of social network media, text classification oriented to the social network has attracted increasing attention. The enormous amounts of user generated content in the social network could offer tremendous information in various topics. Article automatic classification in social network is a challenging problem. However, traditional methods for Chinese article classification are insufficient in the social network due to the high volume, topic variety and data sparseness. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for Chinese article automatic classification oriented to the social network. Sentence extraction techniques are utilized to get the summarization of an article. In addition, word vector model is leveraged to represent the extracted sentence. Finally, a convolutional neural network is built to predict the category of an article in the social network. A thorough evaluation is conducted on real data in the social network, verifying the effectiveness and efficiency of the algorithm.
This paper is concerned with optimal control problems of discrete-time nonlinear systems via a novel Q-learning algorithm. In the newly developed Q-learning algorithm, the iterative Q function in each iteration is required to update on the whole state and control spaces, instead of being updated by a single state and control pair. A new convergence criterion of the corresponding Q-learning algorithm is presented, where the traditional constraints for the learning rates of Q-learning algorithms is relaxed. Finally, simulation results are provided to exemplify the good performance of the developed algorithm.
Speaker recognition is a valuable biometric recognition technology. Recently, with the development of deep learning, many deep network based speaker recognition algorithms are proposed. However, the evaluations on the speaker recognition algorithms are always performed on a small or middle scale of voiceprint corpus. There are few evaluation reports of speaker recognition on a large scale of voiceprint corpus. In this paper, we try to introduce a deep nonlinear metric learning based speaker identification algorithm and construct a larger scale of voiceprint corpus consisting of about 440 thousand people. We perform the evaluation of the deep nonlinear metric learning based method on the large scale corpus and give the recognition rate results in different scales. The evaluation results prove that, the performance is surely decreased when the scale of the corpus is increased. But for the scale of 400 thousand, the recognition rate of Top 50 is stable at about 95%, which means that it could be used in some real applications.
We proposed an auxiliary categorization framework for training speech synthesis systems using deep neural networks (DNNs) and recurrent neural networks (RNNs). The adopted artificial neural networks (ANNs) are regression models comprising a few hidden layers and an affine- transform layer for transforming the contextual features into a set of speech synthesis parameters. In order to incorporate categorization information into training ANNs, similar to DNN- based speech recognition, the proposed approach stacks a secondary classification layer on top of the hidden layers for the regression ANN and trained it together with the primary affinetransform. Four categorization tasks, for classification of voicing, phonation position, phone identity and hidden Markov model state, are considered. The experimental results show that the proposed framework can reduce the root mean square error (RMSE) of the generated log fundamental frequency by about 10.8% and 4.3% for DNN and RNN based synthesis systems, respectively. With the extra classification layers, subjective listening tests also favor DNN and RNN generated speech by about 24% and 15%, respectively, over the ANN baselines without using any categorical information.
The speech mask is widely used to separate multiple speech sources, wherein the time-frequency bins are classified into clusters that correspond to each source. For each source, the separated signal consists of the components on TF bins that are dominated by this source, whereas the components on the remaining bins are completely masked. Most separation methods ignored the masked components. In fact, the masked components may contain some useful information, and the maskbased speech source separation can be improved by reconstructing the masked components. This paper proposes a postprocessing method to reconstruct the masked frequency components through a deep neural network (DNN). We construct a regression from the reliable frequency components to the masked components. After the masked-based separation, the reliable components are kept unchanged, and the masked components are reconstructed by the outputs of DNN. Experimental results confirmed that the proposed method significantly improved the mask-based separation, and that the masked components are still useful to the speech quality.
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) with a gating mechanism have been shown to give state-of-the-art performance in acoustic modeling, such as gated recurrent unit (GRU), long shortterm memory (LSTM), long short-term memory projected (LSTMP), etc. But little is known about why these gated RNNs work and what the differences are among these networks. Based on a series of experimental comparison and analysis, we find that: a) GRU usually performs better than LSTM, for possibly GRU is able to modulate the previous memory content through the learned reset gates, helping to model the long-span dependence more efficiently for speech sequence; b) LSTMP shows comparable performance with GRU, since LSTMP has the similar ability of information selection and combination by an automatic learned linear transformation in a weight-sharing way. In experiments, a visual analysis method is adopted to understand the historical information selection mechanism in RNNs in contrast to DNN. Experimental results on three different speech recognition tasks demonstrate the above conclusions and 5%-13% relative PER or CER reduction is observed.
Currently, most speech synthesis systems generate speech only in a reading style, which greatly affects the expressiveness of synthetized speech. To improve the expressiveness of synthetized speech, this paper focuses on the generation of exclamatory and interrogative speech for Mandarin spoken language. We propose a multi-style (exclamatory and interrogative) deep neural network-based acoustic model with a style-specific layer (can have multiple layers) while other layers are shared. The style-specific layer is used to model the distinct style specific patterns. The shared layers allow maximum knowledge sharing between the declarative and multi-style speech. Such method is also validated on different neural networks. Besides, models that adapted on both spectral and F0 parameter is compared with models while only F0 parameter is adapted. Both subjective and objective evaluations show that this method is superior to prior work (which is trained by the combination of constrained Maximum likelihood linear regression (CMLLR) and structural maximum a posterior (SMAP)), and the BLSTM where top 1 layer is style-specific layer that adapted on both spectral and F0 parameter can achieve the best results.
Human mouth is very flexible such that its status (closed or open) is often used as a judgment in the liveness detection of face recognition. However, due to large head pose and illumination variations, accurate mouth status estimation is still challenging in real-world scenarios. In this paper, we propose a deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) method for mouth status estimation under unconstrained conditions and different types of attacks. Different from previous methods that extract hand-crafted features and then treat the estimation problem as a binary classification task, our method automatically extracts discriminative features via learned convolutional and the pooling layers. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our method and the challenge of mouth status estimation in real-world, we also propose a mouth status estimation dataset that contains 10,714 images in the wild. Experimental results with two types of liveness attacks show that our proposed method outperforms the other traditional methods, especially in the wild condition.
In existing learning to rank problems, the learned ranking function sorts objects according to their predicted scores. Therefore, a full-ordering object list is obtained even if two or more objects have almost identical degrees of relevance (or called objects with ties). For objects containing ties, a more reasonable ranking approach is to learn a ranking function which can judge both the preference and ties relationships among objects. In this paper, we propose a new pairwise ranking algorithm and apply it to image re-ranking. Specifically, we utilize deep learning to re-rank images based on a new loss function. The ties-relationship is considered in both training and testing process. As a result, the learned ranking function can be used to rank objects containing ties. The experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.
This paper explores the importance of detection and appearance features for multiple object tracking. Extensive detectors including hand-crafted methods and deep learning methods have been tested. We found in this paper that simply improving detection performance can lead to much better multiple object tracking results. The data association methods used in this paper are Kalman Filter and Hungarian algorithm as proposed in [1]. CNN features and color histogram features are extracted as appearance features to measure similarities between objects. Our experiments show that appearance features can help with data association. We then combine detection and data association together as an overall system. The proposed system can track multiple objects at a speed of 17 fps with high accuracy.
Digital recognition with lip images has become a key step of the interactive liveness detection for Chinese banking systems. However, the problem of the digital recognition is very challenging due to intra class variation of lip images, head pose variations, and uncontrolled illumination. This paper studies a deep learning architecture to model the appearance and the spatial-temporal information of lip texture. The lip texture in still image frames and the spatial-temporal relationship between these frames are jointly modeled by convolutional neural networks and long short-term memory. Two strategies are further exploited to find effective groups of ten digitals for training the deep models. As a result, more information can be utilized for accurate recognition based on lip texture analysis. Besides, two datasets of isolated digits in Chinese are established to simulate real-world liveness detection environments together with various attacks. Extensive experiments have been done to analyze the recognition accuracy of each digit and to provide some clues for determining appropriate digits for interactive liveness detection.
In order to help spinal cord injury (SCI) patients to walk again, a medical robot exoskeleton have been developed to assist these patients to walk independently in SIAT, Shenzhen. The research of this article is exoskeleton robot single joint load adaptive servo control. Considering the volunteers, wearing an exoskeleton robot, joints have significant changes in load torque and the moment of inertia, so driving joints was designed based on fuzzy control. Load adaptive servo controller makes the robot in rows, counter rotating torque moment of inertia of change and change has a better adaptability, and improves the smoothness of joint movement. This method was tested and the test on SIAT exoskeletons, verify the feasibility of joint adaptive control algorithm.
Robust gait phase prediction is crucial to exoskeleton robots, as it detects the intention of users and improves the lag of motion signals. Therefore, this paper predicts gait phases from two perspectives, including one perspective of spatial features and the other of spatio-temporal features. We employ two machine learning models from the two perspectives to predict. One is support vector machine (SVM) optimized by particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm, and it only focuses on joint information. Another is nonlinear autoregressive models with external inputs (NARX), and it utilizes previous data to predict present status. As for input, four goniometers built into the exoskeleton robot are used to collect hip and knee joint angles during the walking process. To obtain gait phases, a multi-pressure sensor network composed of three force sensitive resistors (FSRs) is set up and four gait phases, including heel-contact, foot-flat, heel-off and toe-high, are determined according to plantar pressure distribution. Experimental results show that both SVM and NARX are capable of predicting gait phases. Specifically, NARX outperforms SVM in terms of accuracy, since it uses FSRs data to correct the wrong predictions. Consequently, it is better to predict gait phases based on space and time dimensions simultaneously.
In this paper, a passivity-based controller with the link side on-line gravity compensation for elastic joints of robot manipulators is presented. In this study, a joint level position, torque control law with double loop construction: an outer the motor side position control, and an inner torque feedback are considered. In terms of torque feedback, a physical interpretation is addressed and analyzed for the purpose controller via passivity theory. It is proved by a Lyapunov function that the control law is globally asymptotically stabilizes at any reference configuration. Moreover, the control performance of algorithm is assessed by a simulation; the simulation study reveals a better performance regarding as the torque ripple in contrast to a proportional-derivative (PD) control.
This paper describes a 2 DOF (Degrees of Freedom) massaging robot prototype: Massagebot, which is equipped with two kinds of massage structure and can realize two kinds of massage by scratching and shaking on user's back. Massagebot has two-wheel gripper, and two-triangular structure of body with good stability. In terms of path planning, we proposed a location algorithm based on simplified acupuncture points, where the SOM (Self-organizing Feature Map) neural networks, image processing and pattern recognition are combined together. In one hand, an innovative idea was proposed that using SOM neural network to cluster and simplify acupuncture points to several classes. In the other hand, there is an acupuncture point recognition algorithm presented in path planning.
Recently, convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been applied successfully to acoustic modelling in speech recognition. As the bottleneck features from CNNs contain inherently discriminative and rich context information, the standard approach is to augment the conventional acoustic features with the CNN bottleneck features in a tandem framework. To better capture the highly complex relationship between them, a novel bidirectional generalized variable parameter HMM (GVP-HMM) based approach is proposed in this paper. In this approach, the trajectories of continuous acoustic features space HMM parameters, as well as the model space linear transforms against CNN bottleneck features are modelled by polynomial functions. The optimal GVP-HMM model structure for each direction, which is determined by the locally varying polynomial parameters and degrees, can be automatically learnt using model selection techniques. The proposed bi-directional GVP-HMM based approach gave a word error rate of 12.22% on the Aurora 4 task. In particular, a significant error rate reduction of 18.09% relative was obtained over the baseline tandem HMM system using CNN bottleneck features on the secondary microphone channel condition.
Many indoor navigation robots use structured light vision measurement systems (SLVMS) for mapping, localization, and obstacle avoidances. In these systems, the extraction of light stripe skeleton directly affects the accuracy of the final measurements. One of the problems in SLVMS is that when the light is projected to some rough surface it will cause strong diffuse reflection. Thus the light stripe captured by the camera contains more or less fuzzy parts. The uncertainty of diffusion pattern and distribution seems to be a great challenge for conventional skeletionization extraction methods. In this paper we proposed a skeletonization algorithm based on fuzzy distance transform (FDT) for the tricky fuzzy light stripe, which, to some extent, overcomes the disadvantage of existing methods and leads to better skeleton representation. First we introduce the principal methods for skeletonization and the theory of FDT. Then, the image preprocessing method together with the extended FDT algorithm are elaborated. Finally, some example results are shown to demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm, followed by the comparison with three other skeletonization methods which are based on distance transform(DT) theory, Voronoi diagram and the principle of digital morphological erosion respectively.
Spatio-temporal cuboid pyramid (STCP) for action recognition using depth motion sequences [1] is influenced by depth camera error which leads the depth motion sequence (DMS) existing many kinds of noise, especially on the surface. It means that the dimension of DMS is awfully high and the feature for action recognition becomes less apparent. In this paper, we present an effective method to reduce noise, which is to segment foreground. We firstly segment and extract human contour in the color image using convolutional network model. Then, human contour is re-segmented utilizing depth information. Thirdly we project each frame of the segmented depth sequence onto three views. We finally extract features from cuboids and recognize human actions. The proposed approach is evaluated on three public benchmark datasets, i.e., UTKinect-Action Dataset, MSRActionPairs Dataset and 3D Online Action Dataset. Experimental results show that our method achieves state-of-theart performance.
The feedrate planning problem of robotics and computer numerical control (CNC) systems is discussed in this paper for realizing planar high precision contouring in minimum time. Besides of the usually considered velocity, acceleration and jerk constraints, a contour error estimation function is also introduced to drive the feedrate planning problem. By directly confining the estimated contour error curve of the feedrate trajectory, high precision contouring is obtained in real machining. The novelty of the proposed method is that a computationally efficient convex optimization approach is proposed to solve this complex nonlinear dynamic optimization problem. Several numerical experiments are implemented to demonstrate the practicability and effectiveness of the proposed approach.
In this paper, we present a control method that combines Brain-computer interface based on Steady-State Visual Evoked Potentials and traditional force/angle sensors to control a lower-limb rehabilitation exoskeleton. Through visual stimulation experiments, the subjects will produce raw electroencephalogram signals including commands information. After acquiring such information, the control system of exoskeleton robot first preprocess it by using butter-worth filter and Fast Fourier transform. By means of canonical correlation analysis, the system then matches the signals with the template signal, in order to decode the electroencephalogram signals and obtain subjects' intentions. At the same time, the robot will judge its state through its own sensor system. Finally, the control system executes the corresponding action after combining status and commands information. The command recognition accuracy is about 91% during the offline experiments. Adding states of the robot could also reduce the probability of robot malfunction during the online experiments. The results verified that the proposed method combining Brain-computer interface and traditional force angle sensor could be effective to control lower-limb exoskeleton robots.
Utilizing plane constraints, a linear kinematic calibration algorithm is proposed for industrial robots based on local frame representation of the POE (Product-of-Exponential) formula. Different from conventional calibration methods which need expensive measurement equipment, the proposed method only needs a laser range finder mounted onto the robot end-effector and several predefined planes fixed to the base. As it suffices to lump all the kinematic errors into the initial poses of the local coordinate frames, the error model derived from the plane constraints is significantly simplified. An iterative least square algorithm is employed to identify the kinematic errors of the robot. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed calibration method.
The microcosmic topology structure of a network are known to have great influence on its macroscopic behavior. To go one step closer to biological system which displays sparsely connected architecture and complex network property, we studied a general sparely connected associative memory model using signal-to-noise analysis. Theoretical solutions for the computational performance of this model with arbitrary degree distribution are derived. Numerical simulations are carried out to demonstrate the effectiveness and rationality of the theoretical determinations, and have shown great consistence with them.
Classification is the basis of electrocardiography (ECG) analysis. In the last decades, a large number of methods were proposed to deal with the classification of ECG beats. In this paper a kind of deep learning method is introduced into ECG beats classification. We create a classifier with stacked sparse autoencoder (SAE), and then combine the softmax regression with the SAE networks to consummate the classifier, from which we can get higher accuracy in the classification task. In the deep networks architecture, we use the stacked sparse autoencoder to get high-level features. Experimental results with the MIT-BIH ECG dataset confirmed that classifier build in this autoencoder based deep networks method perform better in the classical classification problem.
Aimed at imitating the internal characteristic of human brain functional correlations networks which possess power law distribution and scale free property, a novel growing associative memory model based on annealed preferential attachment mechanism was proposed. According to theoretical analysis on annealed synaptic dilution under limited number of synapses, fitness information was defined and introduced. Annealed preferential attachment was implemented by dualdrive of fitness information and neuron degrees for the network construction. Numerical simulations demonstrate that this model can construct a task-based scale free network structure which is much closer to human brains. The memory and recall abilities of this model are also shown to outperform other existing counterparts.
We propose a novel metric for machine translation evaluation based on neural networks. In the training phrase, we maximize the distance between the similarity scores of high and low-quality hypotheses. Then, the trained neural network is used to evaluate the new hypotheses in the testing phase. The proposed metric can efficiently incorporate lexical and syntactic metrics as features in the network and thus is able to capture different levels of linguistic information. Experiments on WMT-14 show state-of-the-art performance is achieved in two out of five language pairs on the system-level and one on the segment-level. Comparative results are also achieved in the remaining language pairs.
With the growth of modern industrial automation, autonomous-learning applied in the field of robot has aroused considerable attentions of researchers. However, those existing learning methods typically require mass among of training set, increasing the difficulty of collecting samples which is time-consuming, while the validity of samples might be divergent greatly, and thus the training efficiency is limited. Simultaneously, the reinforcement learning used in the system was based on the hypothesis that each action in the sequence contribute equally to the consequence, which is not corresponding to the common rules. In this paper, we propose a method, boosting sample DQN, to optimize the validity of training sample set. Inspired by boosting method, by extracting samples from replay memory hierarchically based on statistical results, the efficiency of network training is improved. Our algorithm, which has a small count of parameters, has been transplanted to the dual-arm robot system successfully. This approach learns a set of trajectories for the action of reaching and grabbing target objects using real-time models obtained by interactively wearable sensing equipment. And also, solution was proposed to distinguish weights of different actions. Our method has proved to be adaptive in learning complicated tasks, including grabbing bottle within its scope, as we presented in the paper.
Word segmentation is the first step in Chinese natural language processing, and the error caused by word segmentation can be transmitted to the whole system. In order to reduce the impact of word segmentation and improve the overall performance of Chinese short text classification system, we propose a hybrid model of character-level and word-level features based on recurrent neural network (RNN) with long short-term memory (LSTM). By integrating character-level feature into word-level feature, the missing semantic information by the error of word segmentation will be constructed, meanwhile the wrong semantic relevance will be reduced. The final feature representation is that it suppressed the error of word segmentation in the case of maintaining most of the semantic features of the sentence. The whole model is finally trained end-to-end with supervised Chinese short text classification task. Results demonstrate that the proposed model in this paper is able to represent Chinese short text effectively, and the performances of 32-class and 5-class categorization outperform some remarkable methods.
With the development of pattern recognition and artificial intelligence, emotion recognition based on facial expression has attracted a great deal of research interest. Facial emotion recognition are mainly based on facial images. The commonly used datasets are created artificially, with obvious facial expression on each facial images. Actually, emotion is a complicated and dynamic process. If a person is happy, probably he/she may not keep obvious happy facial expression all the time. Practically, it is important to recognize emotion correctly even if the facial expression is not clear. In this paper, we propose a new method of emotion recognition, i.e., to identify three kinds of emotion: sad, happy and neutral. We acquire 1347 3D facial points by Kinect V2.0. Key facial points are selected and feature extraction is conducted. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is employed for feature dimensionality reduction. Several classical classifiers are used to construct emotion recognition models. The best performance of classification on all, male and female data are 70%, 77% and 80% respectively.
In this paper, we create a virtual character that interacts with human player in a sword-fighting task. The data taken from a human player waving a stick as the 'sword' is mapped into the virtual environment; and the result of the collision detection during the virtual interaction is used as a reward for the reinforcement learning. We train a Q-network that animates the virtual character by rotating its joints toward the blocking the incoming attacks in each individual frame base on the current state. The trained virtual character makes quick and accurate blockings to 'sword' attacks coming in various forms. Further, a human-body dynamic model is used to predict the movements of the task irrelevant joints of the virtual character to create a more human like behavior. Experiment results demonstrate that this method can inspirit a virtual character with an automatic, human-like animation that interacts with human player in real time.
Sentence classification, serving as the foundation of the subsequent text-based processing, continues attracting researchers attentions. Recently, with the great success of deep learning, convolutional neural network (CNN), a kind of common architecture of deep learning, has been widely used to this filed and achieved excellent performance. However, most CNN-based studies focus on using complex architectures to extract more effective category information, requiring more time in training models. With the aim to get better performance with less time cost on classification, this paper proposes two simple and effective methods by fully combining information both extracted from statistics and CNN. The first method is S-SFCNN, which combines statistical features and CNN based probabilistic features of classification to build feature vectors, and then the vectors are used to train the logistic regression classifiers. And the second method is C-SFCNN, which combines CNN-based features and statistics-based probabilistic features of classification to build feature vectors. In the two methods, the Naive Bayes log-count ratios are selected as the text statistical features and the single-layer and single channel CNN is used as our CNN architecture. The testing results executed on 7 tasks show that our methods can achieve better performance than many other complex CNN models with less time cost. In addition, we summarized the main factors influencing the performance of our methods though experiment.
CNNs (convolutional neural networks) have been proved to be efficient deep learning models that can directly extract high level features from raw data. In this paper, a novel CCS (Cube-CNN-SVM) method is proposed for hyperspectral image classification, which is a spectral-spatial feature based hybrid model of CNN and SVM (support vector machine). Different from most of traditional methods that only take spectral information into consideration, a target pixel and the spectral information of its neighbors are organized into a spectral-spatial multi-feature cube used in hyperspectral image classification. It is a straightforward but valid spatial strategy that can easily improve classification accuracy without extra modification of deep CNN's structure except the size of input layer and convolutional kernel. Our deep CNN consists of the input layer, convolutional layer, max pooling layer, full connection layer and output layer. To further improve hyperspectral image classification accuracy, SVM is trained as hyperspectral image classifier with the features extracted by deep CNN from spectral-spatial fusion information. Three hyperspectral image datasets such as the KSC (Kennedy Space Center), PU (Pavia University Scene) and Indian Pines are used to evaluate the performance of CCS method. Experimental results indicate that the hyperspectral image classification can be improved efficiently with the spectral-spatial fusion strategy and CCS method. Firstly, it is easy to implement the spatial strategy to improve classification accuracy about 4% compared with only spectral information used for classification, in which 98.49% is gained on the KSC dataset. Secondly, CCS method can further improve classification accuracy about 1%-3% compared to the best performance of deep CNN, in which 99.45% is gained on the PU dataset.
For RGB-D object recognition, conventional methods only focus on classification, which neglects the importance of humans for object segmentation and object concept learning in the interaction and has limitations when transferring the learned knowledge to general indoor scenes. In this paper, we propose a system that humans can teach robots object concepts and instances by the way of handheld object recognition, a newly research topic in RGB-D object recognition, then these concepts and instances are transferred to more general indoor scenes to recognize target objects. Unlike traditional approaches of RGB-D object recognition, human-machine interaction is considered in our system, in which robots can obtain the object region from object segmentation and enhance its own interactive learning ability. In addition, we propose an RGB-D object dataset to match the hand-held object dataset. In experiments, we use CNN to learn feature representation of RGB-D images in the hand-held training object dataset and RGB-D test object dataset respectively. Experimental results show that our system has a strong capability in RGB-D object recognition.
Crowd counting is a key problem for many computer vision tasks while most existing methods try to count people based on regression with hand-crafted features. Recently, the fast development of deep learning has resulted in many promising detectors of generic object classes. In this paper, to effective leverage the discriminability of convolutional neural networks, we propose a method to people counting based on Faster R-CNN[9] head-shoulder detection and correlation tracking. Firstly, we train a Faster R-CNN head-shoulder detector with Zeiler model to detect people with multiple poses and views. Next, we employ kernelized correlation filter(KCF)[7] to track the people and obtain the trajectory. Considering the results of the detection and tracking, we fuse the two bounding box to obtain a continuous and stable trajectory. Extensive experiments and comparison show the promise of the proposed approach.
Person re-identification is one of the most critical tasks in the field of computer vision and has widely applications for abnormal detection and object retrieval in video surveillance. In this paper, we give an extensive comparison for different kinds of visual features including hand-craft features and Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) features. We run the experiments on three public dataset CASIA, Market1501 and CUHK03. Through A detail comparison and analysis on different features with different similarity measures, we find Colorhistogram and ScalableColor features are most robust to occlusion on CASIA, while GoogleNet and VG-GNet features have good robustness as well. For all single features, GoogleNet feature achieves the highest results on Market1501 and CUHK03. For feature fustion, GoogleNet feature with ColorStructure achieve the best result on Market1501 and GoogleNet feature wth Colorhistogram achieve the best result on CUHK03. For similarity measure, Cosine distance is evaluated to be the best one in our experiments.
In this paper, we propose a novel model for activity detection in videos via discriminative patches. Each frame is represented as a set of mid-level discriminative patches, which are extracted automatically by association rule mining with convolutional neural networks (CNN) activations. Based on the observation that there are more discriminative patches occurring in the climax stages of an activity, we propose a climax stages discovering method, where the climax of an activity is defined as the continuous frames which have more discriminative patches. Then the patches are further purified by a punishment rule, which ensures that the discriminative patches seldom occur in non-climax stages. Furthermore, the refined patches are used for temporal detection on continuous execution. We demonstrate state-of-the-art performance for activity detection on un-segmented UT-Interaction Set #1.
Advances in location-acquisition and wireless communication technologies have led to wider availability of spatiotemporal (ST) data, which has unique spatial properties (i.e. geographical hierarchy and distance) and temporal properties (i.e. closeness, period and trend). In this paper, we propose a Deep-learning-based prediction model for patio Temporal data (DeepST). We leverage ST domain knowledge to design the architecture of DeepST, which is comprised of two components: spatio-temporal and global. The spatio-temporal component employs the framework of convolutional neural networks to simultaneously model spatial near and distant dependencies, and temporal closeness, period and trend. The global component is used to capture global factors, such as day of the week, weekday or weekend. Using DeepST, we build a real-time crowd flow forecasting system called UrbanFlow. Experiment results on diverse ST datasets verify DeepST's ability to capture ST data's spatio-temporal properties, showing the advantages of DeepST beyond four baseline methods.
Text generation is a typical nature language processing task, and is the basis of machine translation and question answering. Deep learning techniques can get good performance on this task under the condition that huge number of parameters and mass of data are available for training. However, human beings do not learn in this way. People combine knowledge learned before and something new with only few samples. This process is called one-shot learning. In this paper, we propose a neocortex based computational model, Semantic Hierarchical Temporal Memory model (SHTM), for one-shot text generation. The model is refined from Hierarchical Temporal Memory model. LSTM is used for comparative study. Results on three public datasets show that SHTM performs much better than LSTM on the measures of mean precision and BLEU score. In addition, we utilize SHTM model to do question answering in the fashion of text generation and verifying its superiority.
Given the explosive growth of scientific information and the fast advancement of research fields, researchers may not be able to find the most promising topics to combine with their current research and may be trapped in a few familiar research topics without creative ideas. Many studies of recommendation system make the effort to address the above problem, but they ignore the different styles of users and generate the recommendation results based on a common strategy. In this paper, we propose a framework to generate the adaptive recommendation results according to the research styles of users. Our framework contains 3 main parts, the research topic ontology construction, trend prediction and recommendation. First of all, the Fun of Academic Research Ontology (FARO), which has the capacity of describing dynamic and static research features and building a social network, is constructed to organize entities about academic research. Secondly, this paper predicts the popularity variation of research topics with the neural network model. Finally, some adaptive topics are recommended to specific researchers according to the evaluation of their research styles. Basically, this paper is inspired by the associative thinking of human brain to combine the advantages of Web knowledge representation language and the neural network to execute the prediction and recommendation. We test our results based on the publication data of IEEE and Springer. The experimental results demonstrate that our prediction model has a good generalization performance. A questionnaire survey is carried out to assess the recommendation results, and the result shows the feasibility of our method.
Human beings receive stimulations in primary sensory cortex and transfer them to higher brain regions automatically. What happened in this procedure? In this paper, we will focus on one of these regions (hippocampus) and try to simulate its working procedure by building an HMSNN (Hippocampus inspired Memory Spiking Neural Network) model. Dentate Gyrus (DG) and Cornu Ammonis area 3 (CA3) are the main regions of hippocampus and will be simulated by feed forward Spiking Neural Network (SNN) and recurrent Hopfield-like network respectively. From the structural perspective, the computational unit and the connectivity between neurons in HMSNN are all consistent with the anatomical-experimental results in hippocampus. From the functional perspective, the multi-scale memory formation, memory abstraction and memory retention will be shown in HMSNN model. In addition, the HMSNN is tested on MNIST handwritten digit dataset (with static images) and robot walking dataset (with dynamical images). The experimental result shows that: biological neural circuit inspired HMSNN shows comparable classification performance on both datasets compared to the state-of-art convolutional neural networks (CNNs), and shows significantly better performance compared to CNN when noises are introduced to the original images.
The success of deep learning proves that deep models are able to achieve much better performance than shallow models in representation learning. However, deep neural networks with auto-encoder stacked structure suffer from low learning efficiency since common used training algorithms are variations of iterative algorithms based on the time-consuming gradient descent, especially when the network structure is complicated. To deal with this complicated network structure problem, we employ a "divide and conquer" strategy to design a locally connected network structure to decrease the network complexity. The basic idea of our approach is to force the basic units of the deep architecture, e.g., auto-encoders, to extract local features in an analytical way without iterative optimization and assemble these local features into a unified feature. We apply this method to process astronomical spectral data to illustrate the superiority of our approach over other baseline algorithms. Furthermore, we investigate visual interpretations of high level features and the model to demonstrate what exactly the model learn from the data.
This paper presents a novel approach to automatically creating an interval type-2 fuzzy neural network (IT2-FNN) from a type-1 fuzzy TSK system (T1-TSK). The IT2-FNN is constructed in such a way that it takes advantage of the well-behaving T1-TSK. Our approach makes designing the IT2-FNN more efficient and the resulting system is expected to perform better than the T1-TSK due to the footprint of uncertainty of the IT2 fuzzy sets, especially when the system is subject to heavy external or internal uncertainties. There are two automated procedures in the IT2-FNN formation: (1) antecedent structure construction, and (2) learning of the parameters in both the antecedent and consequent. The structure construction is based on antecedent structure of the T1-TSK and consists of three steps - IT2 fuzzy set creation, similarity categorization, and mergence. The IT2 fuzzy sets are directly initialized from the fuzzy sets of the T1-TSK. Then, the IT2 fuzzy sets are classified into different groups based on their similarities. Finally, the IT2 fuzzy sets in each group are merged to create a representative IT2 fuzzy set for each group. The parameter learning procedure uses a hybrid learning algorithm to attain the optimal values for all the parameters. The learning algorithm adopts a new adaptive steepest descent algorithm and a linear least-squares method to adjust the antecedent parameters and consequent parameters, respectively. One benchmark modelling problem is utilized to compare our approach with the T1-TSK systems in the literature under various scenarios. The comparison results show our IT2-FNN performs better than the T1-TSK systems, especially when there are strong uncertainties. In summary, the IT2-FNN can not only achieve better performance but its structure is simpler than that of the similar type-2 fuzzy neural networks in the literature.
Several control schemes have been developed to enhance Master-Slave (MS) control in teleoperated robots however, achieving reduced tracking error and real time response are still major concerns. This study proposed Fuzzy-PD control system for accurate and timely MS tracking in robotic surgery. The proposed model considers tracking error and its first derivative as inputs into fuzzy controller which decides appropriate PD control gains needed to estimate effective control signals. The model was implemented in MATLAB Simulink, and simulation results demonstrate better control performance when compared with existing methods.
The micro-structure of a neural network is known to have great influence on its macro-dynamic behaviors. For sake of imitating the inherent characteristics of small-world property discovered in biological neural system and human intelligence of associative memory via integrating geometrical structure information, an efficient method for designing associative memory neural network with contextual small-world architecture was proposed. Energy function stability demonstration and leaning rule was presented. Connectivity of the network was constructed to reflect contextual local spatial continuity of neuron connections. Numerical experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of this designing method in terms of memory and recall abilities enhancement.
Deep reinforcement learning has received considerable attention after the outstanding performance of AlphaGo. In this paper, we propose a new control strategy of self-driving vehicles using the deep reinforcement learning model, in which learning with an experience of professional driver and a Q-learning algorithm with filtered experience replay are proposed. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed model can reduce the time consumption of learning by 71.2%,and the stability increases by about 32%, compared with the existing neural fitted Q-iteration algorithm.
Traditional approaches rely on domain expertise to acquire complicated features. Meanwhile, existing Natural Language Processing (NLP) tools and techniques are not competent to extract information from digital artifacts collected for investigation. In this paper, we propose an improved framework based on a Convolutional neural network (CNN) to capture significant clues for event identification. The experiments show that our solution achieves excellent results.
The overfitting problems commonly exist in neural networks and RBM models. In order to alleviate the overfitting problem, lots of research has been done. This paper built Weight uncertainty RBM model based on maximum likelihood estimation. And in the experimental section, this paper verified the effectiveness of the Weight uncertainty Deep Belief Network and the Weight uncertainty Deep Boltzmann Machine. In order to improve the images recognition ability, we introduce the spike-and-slab RBM (ssRBM) to our Weight uncertainty RBM and then build the Weight uncertainty spike-and-slab Deep Boltzmann Machine (wssDBM). The experiments showed that, the Weight uncertainty RBM, Weight uncertainty DBN and Weight uncertainty DBM were effective compared with the dropout method. At last, we validate the effectiveness of wssDBM in experimental section.
In recent years, more and more researchers in the control community have focused their attention on distributed coordination due to its broad applications in many fields, the consensus problem is well recognized as a fundamental problem in the cooperation control of multi-agent systems. In this paper, we discuss the noise problem of the discrete linear consensus protocol (DLCP) and point out that noise of DLCP is uncontrollable. Aprotocol using noise suppression function (NS-DLCP) to control the noise is put forward, the theorem about the reasonable range of the noise suppression function is vigorously proved, and sufficient conditions for noise controllable of NS-DLCP are further presented.
In this paper, multilayer perceptron neural networks (MLP neural networks) were used to predict the monkey skull's acoustic parameters (density and sound velocity) for transcranial focused ultrasound (tcFUS) therapy based on the computed tomography (CT) of the monkey skull. Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm was applied for the training of the neural networks with 168 input learning materials. The predicted results of eight samples demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method for accurately predicting the monkey skull's acoustic parameters with the maximum absolute error and the maximum relative error for density of 0.0541 kg/m(3) and 0.00355% respectively and for sound velocity of 0.167 m/s and 0.00542% respectively. Further comparisons of the two dimensional (2D) transcranial focused ultrasound simulations with the predicted and the hypothetically real acoustic parameters of the monkey skull showed that the maximum absolute error and the maximum relative error of the acoustic field were 2.3 10(-4) Pa and 0.00161% respectively. Additionally, at the main distribution area of the acoustic field, the relative error was smaller. All of the numerical analyses of the density error, sound velocity error and acoustic field error were responsible for supporting the proposed method suitable for precisely predicting the monkey skull's acoustic parameters.
Understanding urban human mobility is crucial for epidemic control, urban planning, traffic forecasting systems and, more recently, various mobile and network applications. Nowadays, a variety of urban human mobility data have been gathered and published. Pervasive GPS data can be collected by mobile phones. A mobile operator can track people's movement in cities based on their cellular network location. This urban human mobility data contains rich knowledge about locations and can help in addressing many urban challenges such as traffic congestion or air pollution problems. In this article, we survey recent literature on urban human mobility from a data mining view: from the data collection and cleaning, to the mobility models and the applications. First, we summarize recent public urban human mobility data sets and how to clean and preprocess such data. Second, we describe recent urban human mobility models and predictors, e.g., the deep learning predictor, for predicting urban human mobility. Third, we describe how to evaluate the models and predictors. We conclude by considering how applications can utilize the mobility models and predictive tools for addressing city challenges.
Minutiae, as the essential features of fingerprints, play a significant role in fingerprint recognition systems. Most existing minutiae extraction methods are based on a series of hand-defined preprocesses such as binarization, thinning and enhancement. However, these preprocesses require strong prior knowledge and are always lossy operations. And that will lead to dropped or false extractions of minutiae. In this paper, a novel minutiae extraction approach based on deep convolutional neural networks is proposed, which directly extract minutiae on raw fingerprint images without any preprocess since we tactfully take the advantage of the strong representative capacity of deep convolutional neural networks. Minutiae can be effectively extracted due to the well designed architectures. Furthermore, the accuracy is guaranteed in that the comprehensive estimate is made to eliminate spurious minutiae. Moreover, a number of implement skills are employed both to avoid overfitting and to improve the robustness. This approach makes a good performance because it not only makes all use of information in fingerprint images but also learns the minutiae patterns from large amounts of data. Comparisons are made with previous works and a widely applied commercial fingerprint identification system. Results show that our approach performs better both in accuracy and robustness.
In this paper, a decentralized adaptive neural network sliding mode control scheme is proposed for trajectory tracking control problem of reconfigurable manipulators based on data-based modeling. This method can be implemented to reconfigurable manipulators with different configurations and degrees of freedom without modifying any control parameters. Different from the previous works, the proposed control strategy is applied to mechanism model and data-based model of reconfigurable manipulators, respectively. The data-based model which is more comprehensive and precise is trained by the BP neural network with sampled input-output data. The gradient descent method is used to attain higher identification precision. Then the asymptotical stability of the system is proved using the Lyapunov theorem. Simulations are presented to not only illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed decentralized control scheme, but make a detailed comparison for control performance of the two modeling methods.
The kernel least mean square (KLMS) algorithm is an efficient non-linear adaptive filter that operates in the reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS). In realistic applications of system identification or time series prediction, there are usually multiple inputs that demand multiple kernels or kernel parameters. This paper proposes to use a tensor product kernel for KLMS that accommodates multiple inputs. Furthermore, instead of arbitrarily setting kernel parameters, appropriate kernel sizes can be chosen by a gradient descent based adaptive algorithm that minimizes the square of instant error, which helps KLMS to better capture the underlying system mechanism. Effectiveness of the proposed algorithm is shown by experiments conducted for both simulated dataset and an important real-world problem - Beijing PM2.5 prediction.
With the rapid growth of Web 2.0, social media has become a prevalent information sharing and seeking channel for health surveillance, in which users form interactive networks by posting and replying messages, providing and rating reviews, attending multiple discussion boards on health-related topics. Users' behaviors in these interactive networks reflect users' multiple interests. To provide better information service for users, it is necessary to analyze the user interactions and predict users' multi-interests. Most existing work in predicting users' multi-interests based on multi label network classification focuses on using approximate inference methods to leverage the dependency information to improve classification results. Inspired by deep learning techniques, DEEPWALK learns label independent latent representations of vertices in a network using local information obtained from truncated random walks, which provides an efficient way for predicting users multi-interests from user interactions. In this paper, we develop a user's multi-interests prediction model based on DEEPWALK, weight information of user interactions is considered when modeling a stream of short constrained random walks and SkipGram is employed to generate more accurate representations of user vertices, which help identify users' interests. Experimental results on two real world health-related datasets show the efficacy of the proposed model.
Deep learning scheme has received significant attention during these years, particularly as a way of building hierarchical representations from unlabeled data for a variety of signal and information processing tasks. However, deep neural networks suffer from slow learning speed since most used training algorithms are based on variations of the gradient descent algorithms which require iterative optimization and thus are time-consuming. In addition, a series of control parameters need to be specified empirically which lacks of the theoretical guidance, and current learning algorithms for deep networks are not very suitable to incremental learning scenario. To address these issues, we propose a fast learning scheme in this paper. The basic idea of our approach is to pre-train basic units such as auto-encoders of the deep architecture in an analytical way without any iterative optimization procedure. This scheme is also extended to an incremental learning version. The experimental result shows the superiority of our approach over the state-of-the-art gradient descent based algorithms. To demonstrate the impact of our algorithm on complicated real world applications, we give an example of its performance in astronomical spectra pattern recognition.
Experience replay is a promising approach to improve the learning efficiency of adaptive dynamic programming. A general model-free adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) approach with the experience replay technology is investigated in this paper to solve the optimal control problems in continuous state and action spaces. Both the critic network and action network are modeled with a feedforward neural network with one hidden layer. During the learning process, a number of recently observed data samples are recorded in a database. When updating the parameters of the neural networks, the data in the sample database are repeatedly used to update the weights of the action network and the critic network. Implementation details of the algorithm are given, and simulation experiments are utilized to verify the learning efficiency of the proposed approach.
In this paper, the continuous-time unknown nonlinear zero-sum game is investigated using a model-free online learning method. First, motivated by model-based policy iteration, an iterative equation without any knowledge of system dynamics is derived by introducing simultaneous explorations. Then, the model-free reinforcement learning based on the derived iterative equation is developed to approach the solution of the Hamilton-Jacobi-Isaacs equation. For the online implementation purpose, three neural networks are constructed to approach the value function, control and disturbance policies, respectively. Finally, a simulation example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
In this paper a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) method is proposed to solve the control problem which takes raw image pixels as input states. A convolutional neural network (CNN) is used to approximate Q functions, termed as Q-CNN. A pretrained network, which is the result of a classification challenge on a vast set of natural images, initializes the parameters of Q-CNN. Such initialization assigns Q-CNN with the features of image representation, so it is more concentrated on the control tasks. The weights are tuned under the scheme of fitted Q iteration (FQI), which is an offline reinforcement learning method with the stable convergence property. To demonstrate the performance, a modified Food-Poison problem is simulated. The agent determines its movements based on its forward view. In the end the algorithm successfully learns a satisfied policy which has better performance than the results of previous researches.
This work is a further study on the Generalized Constraint Neural Network (GCNN) model [1], [2]. Two challenges are encountered in the study, that is, to embed any type of prior information and to select its imposing schemes. The work focuses on the second challenge and studies a new constraint imposing scheme for equality constraints. A new method called locally imposing function (LIF) is proposed to provide a local correction to the GCNN prediction function, which therefore falls within Locally Imposing Scheme (LIS). In comparison, the conventional Lagrange multiplier method is considered as Globally Imposing Scheme (GIS) because its added constraint term exhibits a global impact to its objective function. Two advantages are gained from LIS over GIS. First, LIS enables constraints to fire locally and explicitly in the domain only where they need on the prediction function. Second, constraints can be implemented within a network setting directly. We attempt to interpret several constraint methods graphically from a viewpoint of the locality principle. Numerical examples confirm the advantages of the proposed method. In solving boundary value problems with Dirichlet and Neumann constraints, the GCNN model with LIF is possible to achieve an exact satisfaction of the constraints.
In this paper, a class of second-order nonlinear time-delayed multiagent systems with disturbance is investigated. In order to improve the adaptivity, neural networks are used to learn the unknown dynamics. Then, by utilizing LyapunovKrasovskii functional, time delays can be eliminated. Moreover, a robustifying term is introduced to constrain external disturbance. With divide-and-conquer idea, the distributed controller is divided into five different parts to make the multiagent systems reach consensus. To circumvent the singularity induced by the time-delay elimination part, a sigma-function is developed. Finally, the simulation results demonstrate the validity of the distributed controller.
For most of the vehicle logo recognition algorithms, the logo is difficult to be pinpointed, and the recognition is roughly to be done in bad environment. Even though the recognition accuracy of convolution neural network (CNN) is relatively high, it also needs a large number of samples. This paper proposes a multi-scale parallel convolution neural network (multi-scale parallel CNN) to recognize vehicle-logo and improves the existing vehicle detection method. The multi-scale convolution kernel is used to extract features from original data in a parallel way. This method can keep high accuracy in the condition of illumination change and noise pollution, and can adapt to the harsh environment. Experimental results show that the classification accuracy of the method is as high as 98.80% on our owe dataset and 99.80% on the dataset used in other paper, which demonstrates strong generalization ability of our proposed algorithm.
Since sequential information plays an important role in modeling user behaviors, various sequential recommendation methods have been proposed. Methods based on Markov assumption are widely-used, but independently combine several most recent components. Recently, Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) based methods have been successfully applied in several sequential modeling tasks. However, for real-world applications, these methods have difficulty in modeling the contextual information, which has been proved to be very important for behavior modeling. In this paper, we propose a novel model, named Context-Aware Recurrent Neural Networks (CA-RNN). Instead of using the constant input matrix and transition matrix in conventional RNN models, CA-RNN employs adaptive context-specific input matrices and adaptive context-specific transition matrices. The adaptive context-specific input matrices capture external situations where user behaviors happen, such as time, location, weather and so on. And the adaptive context-specific transition matrices capture how lengths of time intervals between adjacent behaviors in historical sequences affect the transition of global sequential features. Experimental results show that the proposed CA-RNN model yields significant improvements over state-of-theart sequential recommendation methods and context-aware recommendation methods on two public datasets, i.e., the Taobao dataset and the Movielens-1M dataset.
In this paper, we study a distributed constrained consensus problem for heterogeneous Euler-Lagrange (EL) systems with kinematic constraints. Each agent is assigned with a convex function as individual cost, and we design a distributed control law to achieve consensus at the optimum of the aggregate cost under given constraints on the velocity and control input which are required to be bounded. Noticing that an EL system with exact knowledge of nonlinearities can be turned into a double-integrator, we first explore the consensus of double-integrator multi-agent systems by Lyapunov method, then extend the result to the case of EL dynamics by inverse dynamics control. Specifically, with knowledge of the furthest distance from the optimum to initial positions, it is shown that control gains can be properly selected to achieve an exponentially fast convergence while satisfying the bounded kinematic constraints, if the fixed undirected topology is connected. A numeric example is given to illustrate the result. (C) 2016, IFAC (International Federation of Automatic Control) Hosting by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Currently, the supervised trained deep neural networks (DNNs) have been successfully applied in several image classification tasks. However, how to extract powerful data representations and discover semantic concepts from unlabeled data is a more practical issue. Unsupervised feature learning methods aim at extracting abstract representations from unlabeled data. Large amount of research works illustrate that these representations can be directly used in the supervised tasks. However, due to the high dimensionality of these representations, it is difficult to discover the categorical concepts among them in an unsupervised way. In this paper, we propose combining the winner-take-all autoencoder with the bipartite graph partitioning algorithm to cluster unlabeled image data. The winner-take-all autoencoder can learn the additive sparse representations. By the experiments, we present the properties of the sparse representations. The bipartite graph partitioning can take full advantage of them and generate semantic clusters. We discover that the confident instances in each cluster are well discriminated. Based on the initial clustering result, we further train a support vector machine (SVM) to refine the clusters. Our method can discover the categorical concepts rapidly and the experiment shows that the clustering performance of our method is good.
SARSA, as one kind of on- policy reinforcement learning methods, is integrated with deep learning to solve the video games control problems in this paper. We use deep convolutional neural network to estimate the state-action value, and SARSA learning to update it. Besides, experience replay is introduced to make the training process suitable to scalable machine learning problems. In this way, a new deep reinforcement learning method, called deep SARSA is proposed to solve complicated control problems such as imitating human to play video games. From the experiments results, we can conclude that the deep SARSA learning shows better performances in some aspects than deep Q learning.
This paper researches on modeling and path following for wheeled mobile robot. The proposed approach of kinematic modeling based on recursive kinematic propagation (RKP) simplifies the derivation of relevant Jacobians and also provides the solution for general cases. The kinematic model can be implemented recursively using a single formula that applies to all cases. The algorithm of path following with compensating slip proposed can compensate the path error effectively by compensating sideslip, wheel slip and steering slip of the wheeled mobile robot. The proposed approach and algorithm have been verified by simulation.
It is necessary to calibrate the structured light plane parameters in addition to the camera intrinsic parameters for structured light vision systems. Besides, structured light plane parameters calibration should be simple and practical on the premise of being accurate. In this paper, a simple calibration method of structured light plane parameters for welding robots is proposed. In the process of camera intrinsic parameters calibration, structured light plane parameters can be calibrated simultaneously. Two feature points on the laser stripe are extracted firstly. Then, another two feature points on the laser stripe are extracted while the robot moves from one calibrating position to another with constraints so that two misaligned laser stripes are generated. Then, the structured light plane parameters could be determined using four points on the structured light plane. What's more, special calibration objects and manual measurements are not required in this method. Therefore, it is a simple and practical calibration method. Finally, a calibration experiment and two vision measurement experiments are implemented. Experimental results show that the structured light plane calibration accuracy could meet the requirement of welding robot.
This paper presents a practical control strategy used on lower limb exoskeleton to help paraplegic patients to stand up and sit down. It can make the process more comfortable and stable no matter the crutches are pressed heavy or slight. It is particularly efficient to the robots without drivable ankle joints such SIAT exoskeleton. Stable space was configured to ensure that the real time-generated trajectory won't break the balance of human-robot system. The speed of each joint adjusts to the pressure under the crutches so as to relieve the impact from crutches. The result of experiments shows that the self-adaptive control strategy can not only ensure the stability and fitness, but also form an incentive-"more effort paid, more time saved".
Arc welding robots are widely used in factories. Most robots require highly-skilled workers doing time-consuming and tedious programming work. The proposed new teaching system in this paper is aiming to simplify the programming process by adding a path point generation module, which depends on a RGB-D sensor to obtain the point cloud and generate path points for space curve seam. The advantage of this system is simplifying the teaching process, which is a step forward of realizing task-level programming. The system is used on an ordinary arc welding robot while not changing it, working as a plug-and-play type solution for easy programming. In this paper, the structure of this teaching system is described. Software architecture of important modules in the system is presented in details. An example is showed that how this system is working.
As legged robots are suitable to be used in unstructured environments, it becomes a popular field of research nowadays. In this paper, the development of quadruped robots is summarized. And several typical and recent robot systems are addressed in details, such as HyQ series, StarlETH, ANYmal, MIT Cheetah and BigDog, etc. Furthermore, some key techniques of environment perception for quadruped robots, including sensors, feature extraction and identification, mapping and SLAM, are also discussed. Finally, future researches of quadruped robots in environment perception are given.
Distributed online optimization problem for continuous-time multi-agent systems with the form of high-order integrator is studied in this paper. In order to minimize the regret, a distributed online optimization algorithm is developed via consensus idea, PI control idea and gradient descent. Moreover, we show that under the proposed algorithm, the regret bound approaches a constant when the operating time tends to infinity.
Event-triggered control strategy is an effective method in multi-agent systems with limited resources. In this paper, a consensus tracking problem of leader-follower multi-agent systems via observer-based event-triggered control is studied. In our set-up, only a subset of the followers can obtain some relative information on the leader. Assume that the leader's control input is unknown for the followers. In order to track such a leader, we design an observer for each follower to estimate the leader's control input, and then propose an observer-based event-triggered control strategy, in which each agent is allowed to be triggered only at its own triggering time instants. It is proved that under the proposed control strategy, the tracking problem can be solved if the communication graph of the agents is connected and the Zeno-behavior of triggering time sequences can be avoided. Finally, an example is given to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed control.
This paper is concerned with solving distributed optimization problem by multi-agent systems with gradient-based dissipative dynamics over undirected graph. The optimization objective function is a sum of local cost functions associated to the individual agents. A novel gradient-based dissipative continuous-time algorithm is proposed to solve the distributed optimization problem, which extends the well-known heavy ball method to distributed optimization. Suppose the local cost functions being strongly convex with locally Lipschitz gradients, by defining suitable Lyapunov functions, then we show that the agents can find the same optimal solution by the proposed algorithm with exponential convergence rate. Specially, the choice of parameters in our algorithm is independent of the communication topology, demonstrating significant advantage over existing algorithms.
A mean square leader-following consensus protocol is proposed for discrete-time linear multi-agent systems with communication noises. To attenuate the noise's effect, a specic class of time-varying consensus gains are applied to the noise-corrupted relative states between agents. The distinguished feature of the proposed protocol is that each agent can have its own noise-attenuation gain. Both the steady-state performance and the transient performance of the closed-loop multi-agent system are analyzed. The convergence rates of the mathematical expectation and the second-moment of the leader-following consensus error are explicitly presented.
This paper studies the synchronization control of linear multi-agent systems with unmeasurable states, finite communication data rate and switching topologies. A class of adaptive quantized-observer based dynamic encoding-decoding schemes for information communication and a class of Certainty Equivalence principle based control protocols for synchronization are proposed for overcoming the uncertainties of network environments. It is shown that if the network topology flow is jointly connected, the communication channels are periodically active, and the agent dynamics are observable and with orthogonal system matrices, then the proposed protocols can drive the dynamic network to synchronization exponentially fast with finite bits of information exchange per step.
Automatic and accurate lumbar vertebrae detection is an essential step of image-guided minimally invasive spine surgery (IG-MISS). However, traditional methods still require human intervention due to the similarity of vertebrae, abnormal pathological conditions and uncertain imaging angle. In this paper, we present a novel convolutional neural network (CNN) model to automatically detect lumbar vertebrae for C-arm X-ray images. Training data is augmented by DRR and automatic segmentation of ROI is able to reduce the computational complexity. Furthermore, a feature fusion deep learning (FFDL) model is introduced to combine two types of features of lumbar vertebrae X-ray images, which uses sobel kernel and Gabor kernel to obtain the contour and texture of lumbar vertebrae, respectively. Comprehensive qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate that our proposed model performs more accurate in abnormal cases with pathologies and surgical implants in multi-angle views.
In this paper, we consider the distributed consensus problem of the second-order multi-agent system where the agents are connected via distance-dependent networks. For the feasibility of information processing, we introduce dwell times which may be different at different sampling time instants. Each agent can only receive the information and update its control laws at discrete sampling time instants, which in combination with the continuous-time dynamics yields the hybrid closed-loop dynamics. By analyzing the discrete-time system at the sampling instants and the continuous-time system between the sampling instants, we establish the sufficient condition for consensus of the hybrid second-order multi-agents system, without relying on the properties of the dynamics of the neighbor graphs.
When and why people change their mobile phones are important issues in mobile communications industry, because it will impact greatly on the marketing strategy and revenue estimation for both mobile operators and manufactures. It is a promising way to take use of big data to analyze and predict the phone changing event. In this paper, based on mobile user big data, first through statistical analysis, we find that three important probability distributions, i.e., power-law, log-normal, and geometric distribution, play an important role in the user behaviors. Second, the relationships between eight selected attributes and phone changing are built, for example, young people have greater intention to change their phones if they are using the phones belonging to the low occupancy phones or feature phones. Third, we verified the performance of four prediction models on phone changing event under three scenarios. Information gain ratio was used to implement attribute selection and then sampling method, cost-sensitive together with standard classifiers were used to solve imbalanced phone changing event. Experiment results show our proposed enhanced backpropagation neural network in the undersampling scenario can attain better prediction performance.
This paper investigates the decentralized fault tolerant control (DFTC) scheme based on self-tuned local feedback gain to against partial loss of actuator effectiveness of reconfigurable manipulators. Consider the entire system as a set of interconnected subsystems due to its modularity property, the decentralized control method is proposed by employing two neural networks for the system fault-free. For the subsystem suffers to partial loss of actuator effectiveness, the self-tuned local feedback gain is added to the proposed decentralized control method to guarantee the control performance. Finally, a simulation example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the present DFTC scheme. The main contributions of this method are: i) The fault tolerant control structure is simple since it is no need to be redesigned in the presence of partial loss of actuator effectiveness; ii) The actuator fault can be handled in its local subsystem, it implies that the performance degradation of the faulty subsystem can not affect the fault-free subsystems.
Recently, deep learning approaches have demonstrated remarkable progresses for action recognition in videos. Most existing deep frameworks equally treat every volume i.e. spatial-temporal video clip, and directly assign a video label to all volumes sampled from it. However, within a video, discriminative actions may occur sparsely in a few key volumes, and most other volumes are irrelevant to the labeled action category. Training with a large proportion of irrelevant volumes will hurt performance.
In this paper, we present a new hashing method to learn compact binary codes for highly efficient image retrieval on large-scale datasets. While the complex image appearance variations still pose a great challenge to reliable retrieval, in light of the recent progress of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) in learning robust image representation on various vision tasks, this paper proposes a novel Deep Supervised Hashing (DSH) method to learn compact similarity-preserving binary code for the huge body of image data. Specifically, we devise a CNN architecture that takes pairs of images (similar/dissimilar) as training inputs and encourages the output of each image to approximate discrete values (e.g. +1/-1). To this end, a loss function is elaborately designed to maximize the discriminability of the output space by encoding the supervised information from the input image pairs, and simultaneously imposing regularization on the real-valued outputs to approximate the desired discrete values. For image retrieval, new-coming query images can be easily encoded by propagating through the network and then quantizing the network outputs to binary codes representation. Extensive experiments on two large scale datasets CIFAR-10 and NUS-WIDE show the promising performance of our method compared with the state-of-the-arts.
In view of the advantages of deep networks in producing useful representation, the generated features of different modality data (such as image, audio) can be jointly learned using Multimodal Restricted Boltzmann Machines (MRBM). Recently, audiovisual speech recognition based the MRBM has attracted much attention, and the MRBM shows its effectiveness in learning the joint representation across audiovisual modalities. However, the built networks have weakness in modeling the multimodal sequence which is the natural property of speech signal. In this paper, we will introduce a novel temporal multimodal deep learning architecture, named as Recurrent Temporal Multimodal RBM (RTMRBM), that models multimodal sequences by transforming the sequence of connected MRBMs into a probabilistic series model. Compared with existing multimodal networks, it's simple and efficient in learning temporal joint representation. We evaluate our model on audiovisual speech datasets, two public (AVLetters and AVLetters2) and one self-build. The experimental results demonstrate that our approach can obviously improve the accuracy of recognition compared with standard MRBM and the temporal model based on conditional RBM. In addition, RTMRBM still outperforms non-temporal multimodal deep networks in the presence of the weakness of long-term dependencies.
Recently, convolutional neural networks (CNN) have demonstrated impressive performance in various computer vision tasks. However, high performance hardware is typically indispensable for the application of CNN models due to the high computation complexity, which prohibits their further extensions. In this paper, we propose an efficient framework, namely Quantized CNN, to simultaneously speed-up the computation and reduce the storage and memory overhead of CNN models. Both filter kernels in convolutional layers and weighting matrices in fully-connected layers are quantized, aiming at minimizing the estimation error of each layer's response. Extensive experiments on the ILSVRC-12 benchmark demonstrate 4 similar to 6x speed-up and 15 similar to 20x compression with merely one percentage loss of classification accuracy. With our quantized CNN model, even mobile devices can accurately classify images within one second.
While considerable progresses have been made on face recognition, age-invariant face recognition (AIFR) still remains a major challenge in real world applications of face recognition systems. The major difficulty of AIFR arises from the fact that the facial appearance is subject to significant intra-personal changes caused by the aging process over time. In order to address this problem, we propose a novel deep face recognition framework to learn the ageinvariant deep face features through a carefully designed CNN model. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first attempt to show the effectiveness of deep CNNs in advancing the state-of-the-art of AIFR. Extensive experiments are conducted on several public domain face aging datasets (MORPH Album2, FGNET, and CACD-VS) to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model over the state-of-the-art. We also verify the excellent generalization of our new model on the famous LFW dataset.
Attributes offer useful mid-level features to interpret visual data. While most attribute learning methods are supervised by costly human-generated labels, we introduce a simple yet powerful unsupervised approach to learn and predict visual attributes directly from data. Given a large unlabeled image collection as input, we train deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to output a set of discriminative, binary attributes often with semantic meanings. Specifically, we first train a CNN coupled with unsupervised discriminative clustering, and then use the cluster membership as a soft supervision to discover shared attributes from the clusters while maximizing their separability. The learned attributes are shown to be capable of encoding rich imagery properties from both natural images and contour patches. The visual representations learned in this way are also transferrable to other tasks such as object detection. We show other convincing results on the related tasks of image retrieval and classification, and contour detection.
Data in vision domain often exhibit highly-skewed class distribution, i.e., most data belong to a few majority classes, while the minority classes only contain a scarce amount of instances. To mitigate this issue, contemporary classification methods based on deep convolutional neural network (CNN) typically follow classic strategies such as class re-sampling or cost-sensitive training. In this paper, we conduct extensive and systematic experiments to validate the effectiveness of these classic schemes for representation learning on class-imbalanced data. We further demonstrate that more discriminative deep representation can be learned by enforcing a deep network to maintain both intercluster and inter-class margins. This tighter constraint effectively reduces the class imbalance inherent in the local data neighborhood. We show that the margins can be easily deployed in standard deep learning framework through quintuplet instance sampling and the associated triple-header hinge loss. The representation learned by our approach, when combined with a simple k-nearest neighbor (kNN) algorithm, shows significant improvements over existing methods on both high-and low-level vision classification tasks that exhibit imbalanced class distribution.
The design of networked observers has recently received much consideration. This paper is concerned with the design of distributed observers with arbitrarily large communication time delays. A traditional centralized observer assumes access to the full output the plant. In the real world situations, the output is often measured by distributed senors connected through a communication network. We propose the design of a set of distributed observers with time delays in the communication channels. Each observer is regarded as an agent, which obtains local information of the plant and communicates with other observers through an undirected communication network, with arbitrarily large time delays. Conditions are established under which the states of all observers converge exponentially to the plant state. Numerical results are proposed to illustrate our results.
Deep convolutional neural networks (DCNN) have recently achieved state-of-the-art performance on handwritten Chinese character recognition (HCCR). However, most of DCNN models employ the softmax activation function and minimize cross-entropy loss, which may loss some inter-class information. To cope with this problem, we demonstrate a small but consistent advantage of using both classification and similarity ranking signals as supervision. Specifically, the presented method learns a DCNN model by maximizing the inter-class variations and minimizing the intra-class variations, and simultaneously minimizing the cross -entropy loss. In addition, we also review some loss functions for similarity ranking and evaluate their performance. Our experiments demonstrate that the presented method achieves state-of-the-art accuracy on the well-known ICDAR 2013 offfine HCCR competition dataset.
Writer adaptation is an important topic in handwriting recognition, which can further improve the performance of writer-independent recognizer. In this paper, we propose combining the neural network classifier with style transfer mapping (STM) for unsupervised writer adaptation, which only require writer-specific unlabeled data, and therefore is more common and efficient compared to supervised adaptation. We use some techniques like dropout, ReLU, momentum, and deeply supervised strategy to improve the performance of the neural network classifier. For a specific writer in the test data, an adaptation layer is added to the pre-trained neural network classifier. In adaptation process, only the parameters in adaptation layer are updated while other parameters of the neural network are kept unchanged. To train the adaptation layer, we use the same technology as STM learning but redefine the source point set, target point set and the corresponding confidence. Experiments on the online Chinese handwriting database CASIA-OLHWDB1.1 demonstrate that our method is very efficient and effective in improving classification accuracy. The experimental results also show that our proposed method outperforms the previous proposed learning vector quantization (LVQ) and modified quadratic discriminant function (MQDF) with STM methods for writer adaptation.
In this work, stochastic consensus of linear multi agent systems with multiplicative measurement noises is investigated under undirected graphs. Rased on the algebraic graph theory and the matrix theory, the consensus problem is converted into the stochastic stability problem of stochastic differential equations (SDEs) driven by multiplicative noises. Then by stochastic stability theorem for SDEs, the stochastic consensus conditions are given for the multi-agent systems. For the general linear multi-agent systems, the sufficient conditions for the mean square and the almost sure consensus are obtained based on the solution to an algebraic Riccati equation, where the consentability condition on the algebraic connectivity and the channel uncertainties is revealed. For the case of second-order integrator dynamics, by choosing some appropriate Lyapunov functions, the sufficient conditions for the mean square and the almost sure consensus, and the necessary conditions for the mean square consensus are derived. Moreover, it is shown that for any bounded noise intensities, the mean square and the almost sure consensus can be achieved by carefully choosing the control gain.
Sentiment classification on weibo has recently attracted wide attention in research community. Most previous works are focused on weibo comments regarding movies or products. Our study, in contrast, is aimed at gusty incidents on weibo. Comments of the incidents are considered either positive or negative representing attitudes of users towards these incidents. Classifying users' attitudes helps identifying the general opinion of the public. In this paper, we propose an innovative convolutional neural networks based method, termed as CNN-SVM, to classify the incident comments. In addition, according to users' repost actions, we propose a new data structure, repost tree, for dealing with ambiguity in the comments. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the CNN-SVMmethod effectively improves the accuracy of incidents sentiment classification. The new data structure shows to be effective on steering the classification results towards real world sentiment tendency.
Aiming at the need for autonomous learning in reinforcement learning (RL), a quantitative emotion-based motivation model is proposed by introducing psychological emotional factors as the intrinsic motivation. The curiosity is used to promote or hold back agents' exploration of unknown states, the happiness index is used to determine the current state-action's happiness level, the control power is used to indicate agents' control ability over its surrounding environment, and together to adjust agents' learning preferences and behavioral patterns. To combine intrinsic emotional motivations with classic RL, two methods are proposed. The first method is to use the intrinsic emotional motivations to explore unknown environment and learn the environment transitioning model ahead of time; while the second method is to combine intrinsic emotional motivations with external rewards as the ultimate joint reward function, directly to drive agents' learning. As the result shows, in the simulation experiments in the rat foraging in maze scenario, both methods have achieved relatively good performance, compared with classic RL which is purely driven by external rewards.
An agent-based model is employed to simulate an organization as a complex adaptive system which reveals how organization creates value through evolutionary knowledge management by autonomous agents from the bottom up. One of the surprising findings indicates that organizational performance is non-monotonically improved by either knowledge creation or diffusion. Meanwhile, a gaming experiment is conducted to verify the model and collect empirical evidence for model enhancement. Various causal relations among agents' behavior, the turbulence of environment, the emergent social structure, and the organizational performance are elucidated. This study demonstrates the integration of multi-agent simulation and human experiment as a novel, robust, and scientific approach on tackling complexity and uncertainty involved in the field of knowledge management.
Deformable models and level set methods have been extensively investigated for computerized image segmentation. However, medical image segmentation is yet one of open challenges owing to diversified physiology, pathology, and imaging modalities. Existing level set methods suffer from some inherent drawbacks in face of noise, ambiguity, and inhomogeneity. It is also refractory to control level set segmentation that is dependent on image content and evolutional strategies. In this paper, a new level set formulation is proposed by using fuzzy region competition for selective image segmentation. It is able to detect and track the arbitrary combination of selected objects or image components. To the best of our knowledge, this new formulation should be one of the first proposals in a framework of region competition for selective segmentation. Experiments on both synthetic and real images validate its advantages in selective level set segmentation.
In this paper, the event-triggered communication strategy with passification consensus co-design is investigated for a class of general multi-agent systems. In particular, the proposed event-triggered mechanism is asynchronous for each agent individually such that the information exchange cost can be reduced effectively. Moreover, with the consideration of unreliable communication networks, randomly occurring transmission failure is modeled by utilizing the stochastic variable. Based on passivity theory, sufficient conditions are established to guarantee that the consensus can be achieved with the desired passification performance. Furthermore, the consensus protocol gain is designed. Finally, a numerical example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of our theoretical results.
In this paper, an online learning algorithm based on policy iteration is established to solve the optimal control problem for weakly coupled nonlinear continuous-time systems. Using the weak coupling theory, the original problem is transformed into three reduced-order optimal control problems. To obtain the optimal control laws without system dynamics, we construct an online data-based integral policy iteration algorithm which is used to solve the decoupled optimal control problems. The actor-critic technique based on neural networks and the least squares method are used to implement the model-free learning algorithm. A simulation example is given to verify the applicability of the developed algorithm.
This paper focuses on the problem of built-up areas detection in single high-resolution SAR images. In consideration of the rich structure information of built-up areas in high-resolution SAR images, we put forward a multiscale CNN model to extract multiscale trained features directly from image patches to detect built-up areas. By processing features extraction and classification as a whole, we overcome the difficulty of feature definition of SAR images. Experiments on TerraSAR-X high-resolution SAR images over Beijing show that our approach outperforms the traditional methods and single scale CNNs method.
Building extraction from remote sensing images is of great importance in urban planning. Yet it is a longstanding problem for many complicate factors such as various scales and complex backgrounds. This paper proposes a novel supervised building extraction method via deep deconvolution neural networks (DeconvNet). Our method consists of three steps. First, we preprocess the multi-source remote sensing images provided by the IEEE GRSS Data Fusion Contest. A high-quality Vancouver building dataset is created on pansharpened images whose ground-truth are obtained from the OpenStreetMap project. Then, we pretrain a deep deconvolution network on a public large-scale Massachusetts building dataset, which is further fine-tuned by two band combinations (RGB and NRG) of our dataset, respectively. Moreover, the output saliency maps of the fine-tuned models are fused to produce the final building extraction result. Extensive experiments on our Vancouver building dataset demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed method. To the best of our knowledge, it is the first work to use deconvolution networks for building extraction from remote sensing images.
A ground-based optical telescope equipped with CCD sensor has become an important tool for space debris monitoring in order to maintain a space debris catalogues. In this paper, we emphasized on an enhanced technique for a small and dimming space object extraction. Traditionally, the static background subtraction based on median image technique is widely used to extract the moving space object in astronomy field, because of its low computation cost. However, the main disadvantage of this technique is that it is not robustness with atmospheric effects, illumination changed and etc. Therefore, the proposed method, which is the combination of running Gaussian average and Neural Networks algorithm aim to enhance the traditional object extraction in order to precisely adapt the background model and also reduce the background noise. The performance of this proposed algorithm is evaluated by the experimental results with real background images, and showed that our proposed algorithm can achieve a high level of Signal-to-Clutter Ratio under a complex or dynamic-background.
The interaction neighborhood relationship among agents in many multi-agent systems is defined based on interaction radius r. Therefore, r plays an important role in the dynamics of these multi-agent systems. So does it also have influence on intervention methods for multi-agent systems? To answer this question, we study the impact of r on the performance of the Soft Control intervention method based on the simplified Vicsek Model. According to the soft control idea, some special agents, called shills, are added into the system with the purpose of changing the convergent heading of the group. Through simulations, we find that the interaction radius r has very different impact on the soft control performance in different cases: large r gives fast convergent speed in the centered fixed heading shills case, while small r leads to a large change in convergent heading in the centered evolvable heading shills case, and r has little impact on the performance for the distributed shills cases. This can be explained by the tradeoff of the positive and negative effects of large r. The 'core' effect, 'alliance' effect and 'virtual shills' effect are discovered in the centered shills cases, which show the advantages of shills staying together.
This paper considers the grouping optimization problem of multi-agent systems with antagonistic interactions in the network, where some agents may either collaborate or compete with other agents. The grouping algorithm is proposed, which actually generalizes the existing continuous-time coordination algorithms with PI control, and also extends some existing consensus problems in the social network theory. It is proved that the agents can reach bipartite consensus and converge to the optimal solution over connected structurally balanced graphs. It is also shown that the results are consistent with the existing ones of the cooperative system.
In this paper, we develop a data-based robust control method for a class of unknown nonlinear systems with input constraints. First, we transform the robust control problem into a constrained optimal control problem by introducing a value function for the nominal system. Then, under the framework of integral reinforcement learning, we construct an actor-critic architecture to approximately solve the constrained optimal control problem. Based on the present architecture, we only require system data rather than the availability of full/partial prior knowledge of system dynamics. In addition, by using Lyapunov's direct method, we prove that the obtained approximate optimal control can guarantee the unknown nonlinear system to be uniformly ultimately bounded. Finally, we provide an example to illustrate the effectiveness of the developed method.
In this note, an adaptive control scheme is developed for the time-delayed nonlinear Markovian jump systems. The explosion of complexity in traditional backstepping design is avoided by utilizing dynamic surface control. Filters are constructed to provide the proper auxiliary signals. Neural networks are employed to estimate the unknown continuous functions. A novel Lyapunov function is proposed, which contains the stochastically jumping parameters. New features of neural networks approximation in Markovian jump systems are revealed. It is proved that the closed-loop system is bounded in probability. The theoretic result is illustrated through a simulation example.
Nowadays, object recognition in 3D scenes has become an emerging challenge with various applications. However, an object can't be represented well by artificial features derived only from 2D images or depth images separately, and supervised learning method usually requires lots of manually labeled data. To address those limitations, we propose a cross-modality deep learning framework based on contractive autoencoders for 3D scenes object recognition. In particular, we use contractive autoencoding to learn feature representations from 2D and depth images at the same time in an unsupervised way, it is possible to capture their joint information to reinforce detector training. Experiments on 3D image dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method for 3D scene object recognition.
In the video monitoring system, due to the complicated background, environment light changes and restrictions on the performance of the device, resulting the difficulty in target detection algorithm design. While the traditional target detection algorithms typically rely on manual selection features, and hard to get a valid classification from amounts of data. Based on the deep learning algorithm, this paper constructs a convolutional neural network, and using the person, vehicle graphics, which are collected by the bionic eye monitoring system, for training the network. Besides we design a series of experiments for analysis the characteristics of the network, and proved that the training set distribution of samples in each category and the number of training samples in a small case would impact the results of the training of deep learning network. In addition, it shows that the parameters of the model using the fuzzy image for training can get a similar result with fuzzy image and clear image.
Reliable and stable visual perception systems are needed for humanoid robotic assistants to perform complex grasping and manipulation tasks. The recognition of the object and its precise 6D pose are required. This paper addresses the challenge of detecting and positioning a textureless known object, by estimating its complete 6D pose in cluttered scenes. A 3D perception system is proposed in this paper, which can robustly recognize CAD models in cluttered scenes for the purpose of grasping with a mobile manipulator. Our approach uses a powerful combination of two different camera technologies, Time-Of-Flight (TOF) and RGB, to segment the scene and extract objects. Combining the depth image and gray image to recognize instances of a 3D object in the world and estimate their 3D poses. The full pose estimation process is based on depth images segmentation and an efficient shape-based matching. At first, the depth image is used to separate the supporting plane of objects from the cluttered background. Thus, cluttered backgrounds are circumvented and the search space is extremely reduced. And a hierarchical model based on the geometry information of a priori CAD model of the object is generated in the offline stage. Then using the hierarchical model we perform a shape-based matching in 2D gray images. Finally, we validate the proposed method in a number of experiments. The results show that utilizing depth and gray images together can reach the demand of a time-critical application and reduce the error rate of object recognition significantly.
Satellite remote sensing has been used in many fields but less commonly for monitoring grazing intensity (GI). In this study, grassland above-ground biomass (AGB) was simulated by multispectral reflectance derived from an artificial neural network (ANN) to investigate GI. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and frequency histograms from sample plots were used to determine the thresholds of AGB for four levels of GI characterized as ungrazed, lightly grazed, moderately grazed and heavily grazed. The distribution of GI in the Xilingol steppe region of Inner Mongolia, China, was then mapped from the remotely sensed grassland AGB. This study could be used as a guide for management interventions and grassland restoration.
we propose a voice conversion framework to map the speech features of a source speaker to a target speaker based on deep neural networks (DNNs). Due to a limited availability of the parallel data needed for a pair of source and target speakers, speech synthesis and dynamic time warping are utilized to construct a large parallel corpus for DNN training. With a small corpus to train DNNs, a lower log spectral distortion can still be seen over the conventional Gaussian mixture model (GMM) approach, trained with the same data. With the synthesized parallel corpus, a speech naturalness preference score of about 54.5% vs. 32.8% and a speech similarity preference score of about 52.5% vs. 23.6% are observed for the DNN-converted speech from the large parallel corpus when compared with the DNN-converted speech from the small parallel corpus.
This paper proposes an approach to perform accent adaptation by using accent dependent bottleneck (BN) features to improve the performance of multi-accent Mandarin speech recognition system. The architecture of the adaptation uses two neural networks. First, deep neural network (DNN) acoustic model acts as a feature extractor which is used to extract accent dependent BN (BN-DNN) features. The input features of the BN-DNN model are MFCC features appended with i-vectors features. Second, bidirectional long short term memory (BLSTM) recurrent neural network (RNN) based acoustic model is used to perform accent-specific adaptation. The input features of the BLSTM RNN model are accent dependent BN features appended with MFCC features. Experiments on RASC863 and CASIA regional accent speech corpus show that the proposed method obtains obvious improvement compared with the BLSTM RNN baseline model.
Recent works in deep learning have shown that large models can dramatically improve performance. In this paper, we accelerated the deep network training using many GPUs. We have developed a framework based on Caffe called Caffe-HPC that can utilize computing clusters with multiple GPUs to train large models. Caffe[6] provides multimedia scientists and practitioners with a clean and modifiable framework for state-of-the-art deep learning algorithms and a collection of reference models. And Caffe-HPC retains all the features of the original Caffe, the model trained on original Caffe can be continue to trained on Caffe-HPC. It provides a convenient solution for people who are using Caffe and want to speed up the training. Using an Asynchronous Stochastic Gradient Descent optimizer, We made a good acceleration on training a CNN model on ILSVRC[5] 2012 dataset. And we have compared the convergence of different SGD algorithms. We believe our work will makes it possible to train larger networks on larger training sets in a reasonable amount of time.
Keyboard, mouse as fundamental input devices of computer systems, have changed traditional input behavior of human beings writing experiences. However, handwriting, painting are still indispensable communication styles. In recent years, touch screen has become a prevailing human computer interface on many kinds of digital devices, which makes it possible for people using a pen to take notes as writing on paper. Moreover, for maintaining primitive input habits, body language is also needed to be translated by machines. With the development of embedded sensors of smart devices and artificial intelligence technologies, many new approaches have been used to recognize human actions. In this paper, we propose a system called Airpen system, which bridges two input modes: writing and in-air gesturing controlling of human body language through a pen-shape controller. Airpen system projects touch screen writing trajectories to a projection screen and uses in-air gestures to make control operations of non-touch screens. In this paper, we firstly design an input mode switching metrics using acceleration status, then implement in-air gesturing recognition using support vector machine(SVM) with accelerometer data. Finally, we validate that our input mode switching metrics can hardly be perceived by users and in-air gesture recognition can achieve high accuracy.
As a structure size scales down to the order of a micron or smaller, there can be a significant changes in the mechanical properties as compared to its macroscopic ones. The nonlocal theories were developed to explain those changes, in which several material constants are involved. Those material constants are (assumed to be) related with the lattice length, grain size, inclusion and defects such as crack, dislocation and void, etc. However, there is still no a clear physical picture for those constants. Various experiments have been conducted to determine those material constants, which always use several specimens and often result in controversial data. Here we propose to use only one specimen and the shifts of its resonant frequencies to determine those material constants. The mechanical properties of a submicron structure is very sensitive to the defects, which is a main reason for the inconclusive results of the above experiments with several specimens. The presence of the material constants can have significant influence on the micro/nanostructure resonant frequencies. By measuring the shifts of resonant frequencies for one specimen, we determine those material constants by solving an inverse problem. Physically, the inverse problem can be solved because the material constants impact on one resonant frequency differently and the shifts of different resonant frequencies are different to one another. This inverse problem solving method gives not only a new but also a more reliable approach of experimentally determining the material constants.
In this study, a land cover classification method based on multi-class Support Vector Machines (SVM) is presented to predict the types of land cover in Miyun area. The obtained backscattered full-waveforms were processed following a workflow of waveform pre-processing, waveform decomposition and feature extraction. The extracted features, which consist of distance, intensity, Full Width at Half Maximum (FWHM) and back scattering cross-section, were corrected and used as attributes for training data to generate the SVM prediction model. The SVM prediction model was applied to predict the types of land cover in Miyun area as ground, trees, buildings and farmland. The classification results of these four types of land covers were obtained based on the ground truth information according to the CCD image data of Miyun area. It showed that the proposed classification algorithm achieved an overall classification accuracy of 90.63%. In order to better explain the SVM classification results, the classification results of SVM method were compared with that of Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) method and it showed that SVM method could achieve better classification results.
In recent years, deep learning has achieved great success in many fields, such as computer vision and natural language processing. Compared to traditional machine learning methods, deep learning has a strong learning ability and can make better use of datasets for feature extraction. Because of its practicability, deep learning becomes more and more popular for many researchers to do research works. In this paper, we mainly introduce some advanced neural networks of deep learning and their applications. Besides, we also discuss the limitations and prospects of deep learning
The Gomoku board game is a longstanding challenge for artificial intelligence research. With the development of deep learning, move prediction can help to promote the intelligence of board game agents as proven in AlphaGo. Following this idea, we train deep convolutional neural networks by supervised learning to predict the moves made by expert Gomoku players from RenjuNet dataset. We put forward a number of deep neural networks with different architectures and different hyperparameters to solve this problem. With only the board state as the input, the proposed deep convolutional neural networks are able to recognize some special features of Gomoku and select the most likely next move. The final neural network achieves the accuracy of move prediction of about 42% on the RenjuNet dataset, which reaches the level of expert Gomoku players. In addition, it is promising to generate strong Gomoku agents of human-level with the move prediction as a guide.
Intrinsic electric activities of neurons play important roles in establishing and refining neural circuits during development. However, how the underlying ionic currents undergo postembryonic reorganizations remains largely unknown. Using acutely dissociated neurons from larval, pupal, and adult Drosophila brains, we show drastic re-assemblies and compensatory regulations of voltage-gated (I-Kv) and Ca2+-activated (I-K(Ca)) K+ currents during postembryonic development. Larval and adult neurons displayed prominent fast-inactivating I-Kv, mediated by the Shaker (Sh) channel to a large extent, while in the same neurons I-K(Ca) was far smaller in amplitude. In contrast, pupal neurons were characterized by large sustained I-Kv and prominent I-K(Ca), encoded predominantly by the slowpoke (slo) gene. Surprisingly, deletion of Sh in the Sh(M) null mutant removed inactivating, transient I-Kv from large portions of neurons at all stages. Interestingly, elimination of Sh currents was accompanied by upregulation of non-Sh transient I-Kv. In comparison, the slo(1) mutation abolished the vast majority of I-K(Ca), particularly at the pupal stage. Strikingly, the deficiency of I-K(Ca) in slo pupae was compensated by the transient component of I-Kv mediated by Sh channels. Thus, I-K(Ca) appears to play critical roles in pupal development and its absence induces functional compensations from a specific transient I-Kv current. While mutants lacking either Sh or slo currents survived normally, Sh;;slo double mutants deficient in both failed to survive through pupal metamorphosis. Together, our data highlight significant reorganizations and homeostatic compensations of K+ currents during postembryonic development and uncover previously unrecognized roles for Sh and slo in this plastic process.
For most teleoperation tasks, it is desired that the telerobot manipulator follows timely and precisely the reference motion set at the master side. However, the conventional control approach may not guarantee the desired performance when there are dynamic uncertainties, especially when there is a notable variation of the telerobot's payload. In this paper, a neural learning based compensation mechanism has been exploited to overcome the effect of the unknown payload as well as uncertainties associated with the telerobot model and the environment. Guaranteed transient performance has been theoretically established. The deterministic learning technique has been employed, such that the neural learned knowledge can be efficiently reused. We performed comparative experiments and demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed design techniques.
Travel time is one of the key concerns among travelers before starting a trip and also an important indicator of traffic conditions. However, travel time acquisition is time delayed and the pattern of travel time is usually irregular. In this paper, we explore a deep learning model, the LSTM neural network model, for travel time prediction. By employing the travel time data provided by Highways England, we construct 66 series prediction LSTM neural networks for the 66 links in the data set. Through model training and validation, we obtain the optimal structure within the setting range for each link. Then we predict multi-step ahead travel times for each link on the test set. Evaluation results show that the 1-step ahead travel time prediction error is relatively small, the median of mean relative error for the 66 links in the experiments is 7.0% on the test set. Deep learning models considering sequence relation are promising in traffic series data prediction.
This paper is concerned with the reliable H-infinity control problem for discrete-time Takagi-Sugeno (T-S) fuzzy systems with time-varying delays and stochastic actuator faults based on a novel summation inequality. A discrete-time homogeneous Markov chain is used to represent the stochastic behavior of actuator faults. By employing a fuzzy basis-dependent Lyapunov functional and the novel summation inequality, an improved sufficient condition is established to ensure that the resultant closedloop system is stochastically stable with an H-infinity performance index. Meanwhile, the solvability condition for the reliable H-infinity control is also established, by which the reliable H-infinity fuzzy controller can be solved from linear matrix inequalities. A numerical example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the present approach.
This paper presents an innovative design concept for a biomimetic dolphin-like underwater glider. As an excellent combination, it offers the advantages of both robotic dolphins and underwater gliders to realize high-maneuverability, highspeed and long-distance motions. As the first step, a skilled and simple dolphin-like prototype with only gliding capability is developed. The hydrodynamic analysis in the glider using Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) method is executed to explore the key hydrodynamic coefficients of dolphin-like glider including lift, drag and pitching moment, and also to analyze the dynamic and static pressure distribution. Finally, experimental results have shown that the dolphin-like glider could successfully glide depending on the pitching torques only from buoyancy-driven system and controllable fins without traditional internal movable masses.
Parameter estimation is an important problem in nonlinear system modeling and control. Through constructing an appropriate fitness function, parameter estimation of system could be converted to a multidimensional parameter optimization problem. As a novel swarm intelligence algorithm, chicken swarm optimization (CSO) has attracted much attention owing to its good global convergence and robustness. In this paper, a method based on improved boundary chicken swarm optimization (IBCSO) is proposed for parameter estimation of nonlinear systems, demonstrated and tested by Lorenz system and a coupling motor system. Furthermore, we have analyzed the influence of time series on the estimation accuracy. Computer simulation results show it is feasible and with desirable performance for parameter estimation of nonlinear systems.
Facial gender and smile classification in unconstrained environment is challenging due to the invertible and large variations of face images. In this paper, we propose a deep model composed of GNet and SNet for these two tasks. We leverage the multi-task learning and the general-to-specific fine-tuning scheme to enhance the performance of our model. Our strategies exploit the inherent correlation between face identity, smile, gender and other face attributes to relieve the problem of over-fitting on small training set and improve the classification performance. We also propose the tasks-aware face cropping scheme to extract attribute-specific regions. The experimental results on the ChaLearn'16 FotW dataset for gender and smile classification demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed methods.
The track 2 and track 3 of ChaLearn 2016 can be considered as Multi-Label Classification problems. We present a framework of learning deep binary encoding (DeepBE) to deal with multi-label problems by transforming multi-labels to single labels. The transformation of DeepBE is in a hidden pattern, which can be well addressed by deep convolutions neural networks (CNNs). Furthermore, we adopt an ensemble strategy to enhance the learning robustness. This strategy is inspired by its effectiveness in fine-grained image recognition (FGIR) problem, while most of face related tasks such as track 2 and track 3 are also FGIR problems. By DeepBE, we got 5.45% and 10.84% mean square error for track 2 and track 3 respectively. Additionally, we proposed an algorithm adaption method to treat the multiple labels of track 2 directly and got 6.84% mean square error.
Deep neural networks usually benefit from unsupervised pre-training, e.g. auto-encoders. However, the classifier further needs supervised fine-tuning methods for good discrimination. Besides, due to the limits of full-connection, the application of auto-encoders is usually limited to small, well aligned images. In this paper, we incorporate the supervised information to propose a novel formulation, namely class-encoder, whose training objective is to reconstruct a sample from another one of which the labels are identical. Class-encoder aims to minimize the intra-class variations in the feature space, and to learn a good discriminative manifolds on a class scale. We impose the class-encoder as a constraint into the softmax for better supervised training, and extend the reconstruction on feature-level to tackle the parameter size issue and translation issue. The experiments show that the class-encoder helps to improve the performance on benchmarks of classification and face recognition. This could also be a promising direction for fast training of face recognition models.
Neural networks (NNs) have been demonstrated to be useful in a broad range of applications such as image recognition, automatic translation and advertisement recommendation. State-of-the-art NNs are known to be both computationally and memory intensive, due to the ever-increasing deep structure, i.e., multiple layers with massive neurons and connections (i.e., synapses). Sparse neural networks have emerged as an effective solution to reduce the amount of computation and memory required. Though existing NN accelerators are able to efficiently process dense and regular networks, they cannot benefit from the reduction of synaptic weights.
Robots play more important roles in daily life and bring us a lot of convenience. Somebody may need to cooperate with robots to complete some specific tasks. But when people work with robots, there remain some significant differences in human-human interactions and human-robot interaction. It is our goal to make robots look even more human-like. We hope that the robot can following the hand of human who act force on the robot. We design a controller which can sense the force acting on any point of the robot and responds indirectly to the force. In addition, a novel design method used to determine the optimal controller parameters of the physical model using the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm is presented. Ultimately, we have carried out experiments on the Spinal Surgery System Robotic (RSSS II), which is developed by our team. The result shows that the new controller performs better in the process of human-robot interaction.
This paper attempts to build a novel model for robots to undertake obstacle avoidance tasks. Conventional work mainly forms a dynamical system (DS) through learning. The dynamical system learned from given demonstrations thus control the robot to perform tasks as expected. However, when the task becomes more complex, the form of dynamical system turns into higher nonlinear form. This results in huge time consumption and inaccuracy. In this paper, we systematically construct the mathematical model of the motion of the robot arm (including both links and the end-effector) based on which we analyze the policy for the robot to avoid stochastically interspersed obstacles and to approach targets. Tensor analysis is utilized to compute the gradient tensor of the distance between obstacles and links for robot to effectively avoid the obstacles. The Frenet frame is applied to model the trajectory of the end-effector and some other knowledge of differential geometry is involved for planning the trajectory of the end effector to approach targets with avoiding all the obstacles. Several instances are provided to display the effectiveness of the novel model.
heterogeneous robot introduce a higher perception ability than single type robots in outdoor environments. One key problem is to making the 3D environmental model from the cooperated robots in real time, especially in the unstructured environment. Based on our previous work on outdoor environment registration method, in this paper, we introduce a CPU based Enhanced ICP method for large-scale heterogeneous robot registration. First, we combine the GPU-based nearest neighbor search in the traditional ICP framework. Second, we proposed a measurement and estimation model for the local minima problem. Third, we proposed a CPU-based heuristic escape method to generate the escaping transformation in real time. Experiments involving one unmanned aerial vehicle and one unmanned surface vehicle were conducted to verify the proposed technique. The experimental results were compared with those of normal ICP registration algorithms to demonstrate the performance of the proposed method.
When a robot manipulator performs tasks in a dynamic unstructured environment, it not only should account for where and how it should move, but also ensure that the robot can effectively avoid collisions with static and moving obstacles. Planning in absolutely unstructured and dynamic environment is much more challenging, up-to-date there is no universal solution to this problem. In this paper, we believed the concept that for motion planning in real dynamic environments, usually there is only a part of a path invalidated by obstacles, and only this part needs replanning. Thus, in this paper a practical strategy was presented for motion planning in dynamic environments. First, a variant dynamic Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) planner was designed to combine global planning with local replanning. Then, the proposed dynamic RRT algorithm was implemented under Robotic Operation System (ROS) framework and applied to a 7-degree-of-freedom manipulator. Experimental results have shown that the proposed dynamic RRT planner can plan and execute movement of robot manipulator between a starting and target position while preserving task constraints and reacting to environment changes in real time.
To data, outside of controlled environments, robots have normally performed manipulation tasks when operated with human. This pattern requires operators with high technical skills training and targeted knowledge acquiring for varied teach-pendant operating system. Motion sensing technology, enabling human-machine interaction in a novel and natural user interface using gestures, crucial inspires us to adopt a user-friendly and straight-forward interaction mode on robot manipulation. Thus, in this paper, we presented a motion sensing based framework for robot manipulation, which recognizes gesture commands captured by motion sensing input device and drives the action of robots. For compatibility, a general hardware interface layer was also developed in the framework. Simulation and physical experiments have been conducted for preliminary validation. The results have shown that the proposed framework is an effective approach for general robot manipulation with motion sensing control.
Vertebral pedicle screw placement is an important part of spine surgery, surgreons hand screw placement turnover rate was higher. With the development of surgical robot and the robot navigation technology, robot surgery applied in surgery became reality. Currently, the main purpose of surgical robot is assisting the doctor to establish trajectory of pedicle screw.
In recent years, deep neural networks have led to exciting breakthroughs in speech recognition, computer vision, and natural language processing (NLP) tasks. However, there have been few positive results of deep models on ad-hoc retrieval tasks. This is partially due to the fact that many important characteristics of the ad-hoc retrieval task have not been well addressed in deep models yet. Typically, the ad-hoc retrieval task is formalized as a matching problem between two pieces of text in existing work using deep models, and treated equivalent to many NLP tasks such as paraphrase identification, question answering and automatic conversation. However, we argue that the ad-hoc retrieval task is mainly about relevance matching while most NLP matching tasks concern semantic matching, and there are some fundamental differences between these two matching tasks. Successful relevance matching requires proper handling of the exact matching signals, query term importance, and diverse matching requirements. In this paper, we propose a novel deep relevance matching model (DRMM) for ad-hoc retrieval. Specifically, our model employs a joint deep architecture at the query term level for relevance matching. By using matching histogram mapping, a feed forward matching network, and a term gating network, we can effectively deal with the three relevance matching factors mentioned above. Experimental results on two representative benchmark collections show that our model can significantly outperform some well-known retrieval models as well as state-of-the-art deep matching models.
As an alternative to question answering methods based on feature engineering, deep learning approaches such as convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and Long Short-Term Memory Models (LSTMs) have recently been proposed for semantic matching of questions and answers. To achieve good results, however, these models have been combined with additional features such as word overlap or BM25 scores. Without this combination, these models perform significantly worse than methods based on linguistic feature engineering. In this paper, we propose an attention based neural matching model for ranking short answer text. We adopt value-shared weighting scheme instead of position-shared weighting scheme for combining different matching signals and incorporate question term importance learning using question attention network. Using the popular benchmark TREC QA data, we show that the relatively simple aNMM model can significantly outperform other neural network models that have been used for the question answering task, and is competitive with models that are combined with additional features. When aNMM is combined with additional features, it outperforms all baselines.
Recent works using artificial neural networks based on word distributed representation greatly boost the performance of various natural language learning tasks, especially question answering. Though, they also carry along with some attendant problems, such as corpus selection for embedding learning, dictionary transformation for different learning tasks, etc. In this paper, we propose to straightforwardly model sentences by means of character sequences, and then utilize convolutional neural networks to integrate character embedding learning together with point-wise answer selection training. Compared with deep models pre-trained on word embedding (WE) strategy, our character-sequential representation (CSR) based method shows a much simpler procedure and more stable performance across different benchmarks. Extensive experiments on two benchmark answer selection datasets exhibit the competitive performance compared with the state-of-the-art methods.
Distilling knowledge from a well-trained cumbersome network to a small one has recently become a new research topic, as lightweight neural networks with high performance are particularly in need in various resource-restricted systems. This paper addresses the problem of distilling word embeddings for NLP tasks. We propose an encoding approach to distill task-specific knowledge from a set of high-dimensional embeddings, so that we can reduce model complexity by a large margin as well as retain high accuracy, achieving a good compromise between efficiency and performance. Experiments reveal the phenomenon that distilling knowledge from cumbersome embeddings is better than directly training neural networks with small embeddings.
Convolutional neural networks (CNN) accelerators have been proposed as an efficient hardware solution for deep learning based applications, which are known to be both compute-and-memory intensive. Although the most advanced CNN accelerators can deliver high computational throughput, the performance is highly unstable. Once changed to accommodate a new network with different parameters like layers and kernel size, the fixed hardware structure, may no longer well match the data flows. Consequently, the accelerator will fail to deliver high performance due to the underutilization of either logic resource or memory bandwidth. To overcome this problem, we proposed a novel deep learning accelerator, which offers multiple types of data-level parallelism: inter-kernel, intra-kernel and hybrid. Our design can adaptively switch among the three types of parallelism and the corresponding data tiling schemes to dynamically match different networks or even different layers of a single network. No matter how we change the hardware configurations or network types, the proposed network mapping strategy ensures the optimal performance and energy-efficiency. Compared with previous state-of-the-art NN accelerators, it is possible to achieve a speedup of 4.0x-8.3x for some layers of the well-known large scale CNNs. For the whole phase of network forward-propagation, our design achieves 28.04% PE energy saving, 90.3% on-chip memory energy saving on average.
Recent advances in Neural Networks (NN) arc enabling more and more innovative applications. As an energy-efficient hardware solution, machine learning accelerators for CNNs or traditional ANNs are also gaining popularity in the area of embedded vision, robotics and cyberphysics. However, the design parameters of NN models vary significantly from application to application. Hence, it's hard to provide one general and highly-efficient hardware solution to accommodate all of them, and it is also impractical for the domain-specific developers to customize their own hardware targeting on a specific NN model. To deal with this dilemma, this study proposes a design automation tool, DeepBurning, allowing the application developers to build from scratch learning accelerators that targets their specific NN models with custom configurations and optimized performance. DeepBurning includes a RTL-level accelerator generator and a coordinated compiler that generates the control flow and data layout under the user-specified constraints. The results can be used to implement FPGA-based NN accelerator or help generate chip design for early design stage. In general, DeepBurning supports a large family of NN models, and greatly simplifies the design flow of NN accelerators for the machine learning or Al application developers. The evaluation shows that the generated learning accelerators burnt to our FPGA board exhibit great power efficiency compared to state-of-the-art FPGA-based solutions.
Gradient temporal-different algorithms such as GTD2 and TDC have improved the accuracy of the algorithm to a new level. Unfortunately, these algorithms converge much slower than conventional temporal-different algorithms. In this paper, we present a approach based on sliding mode control to speed up the GTD2 algorithm, and then use sigmoid function to reduce algorithm's jitter. Our experiments on random walk show that our algorithm converges as fast as conventional temporal-different algorithms and as accurate as GTD2 algorithm at the same time. This is an important property for online-learning tasks.
The correctness of implementation codes is important especially for safety-critical software which is usually written in C programming language. In this paper, we present a C code correctness verification framework (CVF for short) which is based on an automatic theorem proving tool---VCC, and propose a specification checking method to improve the correctness of verification specification codes. We use a real-time OS, RTuinOS1.0.2, to evaluate our CVF framework. And the result shows it is feasible and effective to apply CVF to a real system software. Besides, the experiments also show that the specification checking method is effective.
In recent years, research on language modeling for speech recognition has increasingly focused on the application of neural networks. However, the performance of neural network language models strongly depends on their architectural structure. Three competing concepts have been developed: Firstly, feed forward neural networks representing an n-gram approach; Secondly, recurrent neural networks that may learn context dependencies spanning more than a fixed number of predecessor words; Thirdly, the long short-term memory (LSTM) neural networks can fully exploits the correlation on a telephone conversation corpus. In this paper, we compare count models to feed forward, recurrent, and LSTM neural network in conversational telephone speech recognition tasks. Furthermore, we put forward a language model estimation method introduced the information of history sentences. We evaluate the models in terms of perplexity and word error rate, experimentally validating the strong correlation of the two quantities, which we find to hold regardless of the underlying type of the language model. The experimental results show that the performance of LSTM neural network language model is optimal in n-best lists rescore. Compared to the first pass decoding, the relative decline in average word error rate is 4.3% when using ten candidate results to re-score in conversational telephone speech recognition tasks.
We study the problem of scene classification for RGB-D images in this paper. Firstly we analyze the difference between the RGB and depth images. And then based on the difference, an efficient method is implemented to make use of the RGB and depth images and make a well fusion for the RGB and depth features. Focusing on the difference of modality between the RGB and depth images, we propose a method to learn features from color and depth separately using the heterogeneous model. Especially we use the deep ConyNet model with shallow finetuning for RGB images and the relatively shallow ConyNet model with deep finetuning, which can adequately extract different characteristics of the two modalities. After obtaining the discriminative features for each modality, a multiple fully-connected layers connected with a soft-max classifier is trained to harness the complementary relationship between the two modalities. Experimental evaluations on two publicly RGB-D datasets validate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Fine-grained object recognition is more challenging than generic categorization due to the subtle difference between subcategories under the large intra-class pose change and appearance variations. The state-of-the-art fine-grained recognition methods usually utilize part detection or pose alignment to alleviate the pose variation, and then use convolutional neural networks (CNNs) to extract local discriminative features. Although the hierarchical structure of deep CNNs enables rich and discriminative visual feature extraction, the recognition methods so far mostly use the features of only the last convolutional layer for classification. In this paper, by exploiting the correlation of the convolutional features of within-layer and between-layer, we propose a method to integrate multi-layer convolutional features based on coarse-to-fine mechanism for improving the discrimination capability. Experiments on a number of public datasets show that the proposed method, without part annotation or pose alignment, yields superior or comparable performance to the state-of-the-art methods.
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) have delivered impressive state-of-the-art performances for many vision tasks, while the computation costs of these networks during test-time are notorious. Empirical results have discovered that CNNs have learned the redundant representations both within and across different layers. When CNNs are applied for binary classification, we investigate a method to exploit this redundancy across layers, and construct a cascade of classifiers which explicitly balances classification accuracy and hierarchical feature extraction costs. Our method cost-sensitively selects feature points across several layers from trained networks and embeds non-expensive yet discriminative features into a cascade. Experiments on binary classification demonstrate that our framework leads to drastic test-time improvements, e.g., possible 47.2x speedup for TRECVID upper body detection, 2.82x speedup for Pascal VOC2007 People detection, 3.72x for INRIA Person detection with less than 0.5% drop in accuracies of the original networks.
People drive on the road and eat in the kitchen. Can the road imply driving or the kitchen imply eating? This paper addresses such a problem by studying the relations between actions and scenes. To get effective scene representation, we use a deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) model trained from a scene-centric database to predict scene responses for videos. We employ two encoding schemes based on frame features to represent the scene and its changes, respectively. We conduct experiments on two challenging datasets, HMD-B51 and I Hollywood2, and compare action recognition results of different encodings based on different scene features. Our results demonstrate that scene features, when combined with motion features, improve the state-of-the-art results for action recognition. Finally, we explore the relationship between actions and scenes by analyzing scene preferences to a particular action qualitatively and quantitatively,
Localizing heavily occluded human faces is a challenging problem in facial detection. Previous methods mainly employ sliding windows by determining whether windows include human faces. In this paper, we provide a novel segmentation based perspective for heavily occluded face localization with deep convolutional neural networks (CNN). Our model takes an image as input without complicated pre-processing. After several convolutional layers, fully-connected layers and a softmax classifier, we can predict the labels of all pixels in an image, which is the key to localize heavily occluded human faces. Finally, we search a minimal rectangle to localize the human face. Our detector needs neither complex pre-processing nor the time-consuming sliding window. Besides, we use a single model to localize faces to further alleviate computational complexity. Experimental results show that our proposed method is a very effective way to localize heavily occluded human face.
The major challenge of machine learning based image steganalysis lies in obtaining powerful feature representations. Recently, Qian et al. have shown that Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) is effective for learning features automatically for steganalysis. In this paper, we follow up this new paradigm in steganalysis, and propose a framework based on transfer learning to help the training of CNN for steganalysis, hence to achieve a better performance. We show that feature representations learned with a pre-trained CNN for detecting a steganographic algorithm with a high payload can be efficiently transferred to improve the learning of features for detecting the same steganographic algorithm with a low payload. By detecting representative WOW and S-UNIWARD steganographic algorithms, we demonstrate that the proposed scheme is effective in improving the feature learning in CNN models for steganalysis.
Automatically recognizing pornographic images from the Web is a vital step to purify Internet environment. Inspired by the rapid developments of deep learning models, we present a deep architecture of convolutional neural network (CNN) for high accuracy pornographic image recognition. The proposed architecture is built upon existing CNNs which accepts input images of different sizes and incorporates features from different hierarchy to perform prediction. To effectively train the model, we propose a two-stage training strategy to learn the model parameters from scratch and end-to-end. During the training procedure, we also employ a hard negative sampling strategy to further reduce the false positive rate of the model. Experimental results on a large dataset demonstrate good performance of the proposed model and the effectiveness of our training strategies, with a considerable improvement over some traditional methods using hand-crafted features and deep learning method using mainstream CNN architecture.
Conventional iris recognition requires controlled conditions (e.g., close acquisition distance and stop-and-stare scheme) and high user cooperation for image acquisition. Non-cooperative acquisition environments introduce many adverse factors such as blur, off-axis, occlusions and specular reflections, which challenge existing iris segmentation approaches. In this paper, we present two iris segmentation models, namely hierarchical convolutional neural networks (HCNNs) and multi-scale fully convolutional network (MFCNs), for noisy iris images acquired at-a-distance and on-the-move. Both models automatically locate iris pixels without handcrafted features or rules. Moreover, the features and classifiers are jointly optimized. They are end-to-end models which require no further pre-and post-processing and outperform other state-of-the-art methods. Compared with HCNNs, MFCNs take input of arbitrary size and produces correspondingly-sized output without sliding window prediction, which makes MFCNs more efficient. The shallow, fine layers and deep, global layers are combined in MFCNs to capture both the texture details and global structure of iris patterns. Experimental results show that MFCNs are more robust than HCNNs to noises, and can greatly improve the current state-of-the-arts by 25.62% and 13.24% on the UBIRIS.nu 2 and CASIA.nu 4-distance databases, respectively.
The increasing pressures faced by manufacturers, the shortening of innovation cycles and the growing importance of high-efficiency manufacturing demand a higher versatility of factory automation. In order to achieve this target, engineering tasks currently performed manually need to be automated. In this case, ontologies emerge as a significant method for representing manufacturing knowledge in a machine-interpretable way. This knowledge can then be used by automated problem-solving methods to reconfigure the control software that coordinates and supervises manufacturing systems. Besides, Ontology can play a very important role in the process of creating as well as managing the knowledge. This paper addresses the important issues in developing domain-specific ontology for manufacturing used in industry 4.0 demonstration production line. A generic ontology is developed considering all the aspects about product from customized order to resulting production.
The application of flexible pressure sensors is gradually extended to electronic skins, wearable sensing devices, and humanoid robotics, which are the key to realize artificial intelligence that can contact with humans directly, and to the biomedical applications such as smart prosthesis. In the aforementioned advanced applications, high sensing capability, fast response, high working stability are essential features for the flexible pressure sensors. Although the surface microstructure treatments for electrodes of pressure sensors have been applied to improve sensitivity, the complex process raises the cost and become an obstacle to large-scale manufacturing. In this study, a highly sensitive, low-cost, transparent and flexible capacitive pressure sensor with micro-array polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) dielectric layer has been developed using a facile fabrication strategy. The pressure sensor was fabricated by integrating substrates, micro-array PDMS dielectric layer and silver nanowires (AgNWs) electrode layers. The as-fabricated flexible pressure sensor shows high sensitivity (>2.1 kPa(-1)), fast response (<100 ms) and high cycle stability (>5000 times). The facile fabrication process can be easily scaled up to form pressure sensor arrays, which can be applied to wearable sensing devices or electronic skins.
Inspection of faulty insulators is an effective and practical way to protect the power transmission lines from accidental power blackouts caused by aging insulators. The traditional manual inspection using a live-line tester is labor-intensive, dangerous, inefficient and inaccurate. This paper presents a review of insulator inspection robots and classifies the robots into three categories based on the locomotion mechanism. The structures and details of some typical robot prototypes are described. Moreover, some vital techniques such as mechanical design, control system and electromagnetic compatibility are discussed. Finally, the developing trends and the application perspective of the insulator inspection robots are presented.
According to the requirements of inspection tasks and characteristics of obstacles on 110kV power transmission lines, a novel inspection robot mechanism which adopts unfolding mechanism and the gantry structure is presented. Through altering the unfolding mechanism, the robot can navigate the obstacle quickly. The gantry structure can raise the stiffness of the mechanism. Based on the constraints of the specific features of the electric power transmission and the context of power utility operation, the geometric parameters are customized. The navigation of suspension clamp is simulated, and the structure analysis is studied. A prototype has been developed, and the field experiments has been carried out. The simulation results and field experimental results demonstrate that the mechanism has such characteristics as good motion stability, strong loading capacity and excellent obstacle negotiation capability.
One of the challenges in self-adaptive software systems is to make adaptation plans in response to possible changes. A good plan mechanism shall have the capability of: 1) selecting the most appropriate adaptation actions in response to changes both in the environment and requirements; 2) making adaptation decisions efficiently to react timely to arising situations at run-time. In existing approaches for plan process, rulebased adaptation provides an efficient offline planning method. However, it can react neither to changeable requirements nor to unexpected environment changes. On the contrary, goalbased and utility-based approaches provide online planning mechanisms, which can well handle a highly uncertain environment with dynamically changing requirements and environment. However, online adaptation decision making is often computationally expensive and may encounter less-efficiency problems. The aim of our research is to improve the planning process in requirements driven self-adaptive systems, i.e., enabling the self-adaptive system to efficiently make adaptation plans to cope with the dynamic environment and changeable requirements. To achieve such advantages, we propose a solution to enhance the traditional rule-based adaptation with a rule generation and a rule evolution process, so that the proposed approach can maintain the advantages of efficient planning process while being enhanced with the capability of dealing with runtime uncertainty.
The rapid development of deep learning are enabling a plenty of novel applications such as image and speech recognition for embedded systems, robotics or smart wearable devices. However, typical deep learning models like deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs) consume so much on-chip storage and high-throughput compute resources that they cannot be easily handled by mobile or embedded devices with thrifty silicon and power budget. In order to enable large CNN models in mobile or more cutting-edge devices for IoT or cyberphysics applications, we proposed an efficient on-chip memory architecture for CNN inference acceleration, and showed its application to our in-house general-purpose deep learning accelerator. The redesigned on-chip memory subsystem, Memsqueezer, includes an active weight buffer set and data buffer set that embrace specialized compression methods to reduce the footprint of CNN weight and data set respectively. The Memsqueezer buffer can compress the data and weight set according to their distinct features, and it also includes a built-in redundancy detection mechanism that actively scans through the work-set of CNNs to boost their inference performance by eliminating the data redundancy. In our experiment, it is shown that the CNN accelerators with Memsqueezer buffers achieves more than 2x performance improvement and reduces 80% energy consumption on average over the conventional buffer design with the same area budget.
Considering the three-dimensional(3D) terminal guidance issue, based on the neural dynamic surface control theory, a novel guidance law is designed, and its stability has been proved by Lyapunov stability criterion. The radial basis function(RBF) neural networks are used to estimate the target motion information in real-time and reduce the coupling interference in the 3D motion model. Thus the guidance law can be self-adaptive to the variation of parameters, which improved its robustness. Simulation results shows that the missile which uses this guidance law can obtain smaller miss distance in the case of target maneuvering complicated.
Traditional methods for measuring and monitoring plankton populations are time consuming and can not scale to the granularity or scope necessary for large-scale studies. Improved approaches are needed. Manual analysis of the imagery captured by underwater camera system is infeasible. Automated image classification using machine learning tools is an alternative to the manual approach. In this paper, we present a deep neural network model for plankton classification which exploits translational and rotational symmetry. In this work, we propose two constrains in the design of deep convolutional neural network structure to guarantee the performance gain when going deep. Firstly, for each convolutional layer, its capacity of learning more complex patterns should be guaranteed; Secondly, the receptive field of the topmost layer should be no larger than the image region. We also developed a "inception layer" like structure to deal with multi-size imagery input with convolutional neural network. The experimental result on Plankton Set 1.0 imagery data set show the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed method.
Swarm robots are employed to measure scalar field on many missions. Estimating the scalar value of points near the swarm robots are necessary, when robots are deployed to explore a 2D(Two-Dimensional) scalar field or track some extreme points in it. But it would not to be effortless to get accurate value, since the sampled data are always contaminated by noise. In this paper a discrete state transition model of 2D scalar field is addressed, and this model can be implemented with the Kalman Filter for data fusion on a 2D scalar field exploration mission. The differential equation of the state vector in 2D scalar field is different from the common state transition model utilized by researchers, because the differential variable of it is not only one, however there are two different differential variables, i.e., x and y. This is also the reason why the common state transition model could not be implemented under this context. In this study, the state transition model is developed based on polar coordinate system by making assumptions about the correlation property of elements in Hessian matrix. The computer simulation is executed to prove the validity of this model when it is applied together with Kalman Filter on a 2D scalar field exploration mission performed by four robots.
Appropriate massage on the acupuncture points based on Chinese massage therapy is beneficial to the treatment for hypertension. This paper presents a foot massage robot which reproduces the expert techniques of Chinese massage. The robot is mainly consisted of a parallel positioning mechanism which locates the acupuncture points, and a feed mechanism as the end-effector to apply the massage force to the acupuncture points. The kinematics is analyzed and the transformation matrix is given. The massage process and the desired trajectory are briefly introduced. The trajectory planning algorithm is given after analyzing the point to point trajectory and the multipoint trajectory. Simulation results show the trajectory planning algorithm is effective.
In this paper a novel inspection robot mechanism, which has excellent climbing performance and makes up for the defect of existing robots with poor climbing capability, is proposed for inspecting power transmission lines in some severe environments. After a brief introduction of background, the robot mechanism is described in particular, which is characterized by fore and rear assistant arms. Then the key performance of the inspection robot-climbing capability along inclined lines, is discussed in detail. And the obstacle negotiation process is analyzed. Finally, some simulations are carried out and the results prove that the robot can work well on the power transmission lines with a large angel and negotiate typical obstacles in the line.
With the repaid development of different kinds of offshore structures, there is a great need for the frequent inspection of them. Underwater robot is very qualified of these tasks especially on such occasions that cost and risk are the critical factors. However, the inefficient maneuvering of those traditional underwater robots at low speed makes it unsuitable for thorough inspection tasks as well as tasks in restricted areas which require the robot frequent change its orientation when it is slow even still. In this paper, a new concept underwater robot is proposed. The robot is composed of a propeller for propulsion, a pair of counter rotating rudders to neutralize the reverse torque of the propeller, four steering rudders for the maneuvering of the robot and a pressure hull to encapsulate power and control system. The structural design and motion principle of the robot is given in detail. The kinematic and the dynamic equations of the robot are established. The flow field of the robot is also analyzed using Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) technique.
The existing underwater robots is less steerable at low speeds and special devices are needed for the deployment and recovery of these robots. This makes it unsuitable for the tasks such as underwater inspection and manipulation, especially when cost is strictly restricted. For the design of underwater robots with high mobility and autonomy, in this paper an amphibious robot is proposed. This robot is spherical with two arms outside the spherical hull. The spherical design gives it the ability to roll on the ground. So the robot can autonomously head to the target water without human intervention. This will reduce the cost and enhance its autonomy. The robot employs screw propellers mounted on the two arms for underwater propulsion. With the rotation of the arms the direction of the thrust can be adjusted, so to realize thrust vectoring which can enhance its mobility to a large extent. The arms can also be used for underwater manipulation and for the realization of center of gravity adjustment. The latter will enhance its stability when used for underwater operation. The structure design and motion principle of the robot is given in detail. The dynamics of the robot is also established. The flow field of the robot is numerically simulated for the validation of the design concept.
Customized archwires are demanded in the lingual orthodontic treatment for patients suffering from malocclusion. Traditionally, these archwires could only be bent by experienced orthodontists manually. This pattern requires a specialized skills training and occupies long charside time, but still cannot ensure the accuracy of appliances. Therefore, a novel robotic system was developed for automatic and accurate preparation in our study. First, the implementation of hardware system was designed. Second, a modular and ROS-integrated control system was developed to control automatic bending. Third, an adaptive sampling-based bending planner with collision checker in a time-varying environment was established and realized in control system architecture. Preliminary validation of the developed robot system and its control system have been conducted both in simulation and physical robotic system. Experimental results have shown that the developed robotic system with its ROS-integrated control system was able to accomplish automatic and accurate orthodontic archwire preparation.
Robot calibration is critical for industrial robot applications that require high accuracy. This paper presents a novel calibration method that utilizes Product-Of-Exponential (POE) and Gaussian Process (GP) regression to compensate for both geometric and non-geometric errors within the robot manipulator. Effects of a payload at the end-effector is also considered in the GP regression model in order to further improve robot positioning accuracy in the task space. Simulation and experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. The experimental results show that the proposed method reduces norm pose error by 65.5% and 50.2% on average compared to conventional base-tool calibration and POE calibration respectively.
In this paper, we proposed a bi-stage framework for imagebased emotion recognition by combining the advantages of deep convolutional neural networks (D-CNN) and hypergraphs. To exploit the representational power of D-CNN, we remodeled its last hidden feature layer as the 'attribute' layer in which each hidden unit produces probabilities on a specific semantic attribute. To describe the high-order relationship among facial images, each face was assigned to various hyperedges according to the computed probabilities on different D-CNN attributes. In this way, we tackled the emotion prediction problem by a transductive learning approach, which tends to assign the same label to faces that share many incidental hyperedges (attributes), with the constraints that predicted labels of training samples should be similar to their ground truth labels. We compared the proposed approach to state-of-the-art methods and its effectiveness was demonstrated by extensive experimentation.
Knowledge acquisition from text is an important research of artificial intelligence. In this paper, we present a method of acquiring knowledge from Chinese records of events of cyber attacks based on a semantic grammar. In order to parse the sentences in the records, the method first identifies Chinese noun phrases in the records, and then use the semantic grammar of the cyber-attack domain to parse the records. Finally, knowledge is extracted from the parsing trees. Experimental results show that our method for noun phase identification has a good performance, and the precision of knowledge acquisition reaches a high level of 90 %.
Neural Networks (NN) are a family of models for a broad range of emerging machine learning and pattern recondition applications. NN techniques are conventionally executed on general-purpose processors (such as CPU and GPGPU), which are usually not energy-efficient since they invest excessive hardware resources to flexibly support various workloads. Consequently, application-specific hardware accelerators for neural networks have been proposed recently to improve the energy-efficiency. However, such accelerators were designed for a small set of NN techniques sharing similar computational patterns, and they adopt complex and informative instructions (control signals) directly corresponding to high-level functional blocks of an NN (such as layers), or even an NN as a whole. Although straightforward and easy-to-implement for a limited set of similar NN techniques, the lack of agility in the instruction set prevents such accelerator designs from supporting a variety of different NN techniques with sufficient flexibility and efficiency.
The connectionist temporal classification (CTC) loss function has several interesting properties relevant for automatic speech recognition (ASR): applied on top of deep recurrent neural networks (RNNs), CTC learns the alignments between speech frames and label sequences automatically, which removes the need for pre-generated frame-level labels. CTC systems also do not require context decision trees for good performance, using context-independent (CI) phonemes or characters as targets. This paper presents an extensive exploration of CTC-based acoustic models applied to a variety of ASR tasks, including an empirical study of the optimal configuration and architectural variants for CTC. We observe that on large amounts of training data, CTC models tend to outperform state-of-the-art hybrid approach. Further experiments reveal that CTC can be readily ported to syllable-based languages, and can be enhanced by employing improved feature front-ends.
Though recurrent neural networks (RNNs) using long short-term memory (LSTM) units can address the issue of long-span dependencies across the linguistic inputs and have achieved the state-of-the-art performance for statistical parametric speech synthesis (SPSS), another limitation of the intrinsic uni-Gaussian nature of mean square error (MSE) objective function still remains. This paper proposes a gating recurrent mixture density network (GRMDN) architecture to jointly address these two problems in neural network based SPSS. What's more, the gated recurrent unit (GRU), which is much simpler and has more intelligible work mechanism than LSTM, is also investigated as an alternative gating unit in RNN based acoustic modeling. Experimental results show that the proposed GRMDN architecture can synthesize more natural speech than its MSE-trained counterpart and both the two gating units (LSTM and GRU) show comparable performance.
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs), particularly long short-term memory (LSTM), have gained much attention in automatic speech recognition (ASR). Although some successful stories have been reported, training RNNs remains highly challenging, especially with limited training data. Recent research found that a well-trained model can be used as a teacher to train other child models, by using the predictions generated by the teacher model as supervision. This knowledge transfer learning has been employed to train simple neural nets with a complex one, so that the final performance can reach a level that is infeasible to obtain by regular training. In this paper, we employ the knowledge transfer learning approach to train RNNs (precisely LSTM) using a deep neural network (DNN) model as the teacher. This is different from most of the existing research on knowledge transfer learning, since the teacher (DNN) is assumed to be weaker than the child (RNN); however, our experiments on an ASR task showed that it works fairly well: without applying any tricks on the learning scheme, this approach can train RNNs successfully even with limited training data.
Since the number of surveillance cameras in public areas increases very fast, massive crowd videos are captured and shared, which brings an urgent need to retrieve these videos efficiently and effectively. However, most recent research on crowd video mainly focused on crowd behavior understanding and abnormal detection. In this study, as the very first attempt, we propose a crowd video retrieval method via deep attribute-embedding graph ranking. Group profiling attributes are capable of reflecting rich crowd patterns in videos. To deeply embed the specific relationship and manifold structure of crowd patterns, we integrate graph ranking, optimized weights learning and deep metric transforming in a unified regularization framework for crowd video retrieval. To sufficiently explore the effects of multiple attributes and their complementation in crowds, we devise several sceneindependent visual descriptors specifically for each crowd video. Interpretable descriptors are categorized into different levels and structures as group profiling attributes, according to semantic properties of crowd patterns. Extensive experiments conducted on CUHK crowd dataset demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed approach.
A health monitoring system is designed for smart management for personal health in this paper. Self-description and self-reasoning, the characteristics of ontology, make the link between machine and knowledge, knowledge point and the relevant knowledge point more closer. This system has certain application value on managing and analyzing basic health data. Database in this system is realized by storing user's health data and disease information. Health monitoring system is user-centric which can record user's health condition data and make recommendations for user according to the result of health data analyzing. User's health status is expressed by a specific domain, like overweight and underweight. The experiment result shows that the health monitoring system can make a steady management for personal health on a long track record of health status and strict logic reasoning.
Recently, Deep Learning (DL) has become super hot because it achieves breakthroughs in many areas such as image processing and face identification. The performance of DL models critically depend on hyperparameter settings. However, existing approaches that quantify the importance of these hyperparameters are time-consuming.
Target search is an important ability of the human visual system. One major problem is that the real human visual cognitive process, which requires only few samples for learning, has abilities of inference with obtained knowledge for searching when he meets the new target. Based on the Topographic Class Grouping (TCG) [1] and a series of models of Visual Perceiving and Eyeball-Motion Controlling Neural Networks [2-5], we make effective improvements to the models, by incorporating the cerebral self-organizing feature mapping function in terms of multidimensional TCG. In this paper, we propose the gaze movement control neural network based on multidimensional TCG. Experiments show that gaze movement control neural network by adding a block of multidimensional TCG and by self-organizing visual field image features-spatial relationship clustering achieves the visual inference and stable results on the target search tasks.
This paper establishes a neural network and policy iteration based decentralized control scheme to stabilize large-scale nonlinear systems with unknown mismatched interconnections. For relaxing the common assumption of upper boundedness on interconnections when designing the decentralized optimal control, interconnections are approximated by neural networks with local signals of isolated subsystem and replaced reference signals of coupled subsystems. By using the adaptive estimation term, the performance index function is constructed to reflect the replacement error. Hereafter, it is proven that the developed decentralized optimal control policies can guarantee the closed-loop large-scale nonlinear system to be uniformly ultimately bounded. The effectiveness of the developed scheme is verified by a simulation example.
A success of an improvement project on solving a problem in an organization is not only depending an appropriate methodology on problem solving with Lean, TOC or 6 sigma with relevant tools, but also it is very important to have an appropriate methodology and process on change management integrated with project management during the improvement project. This paper describes the principle of change management based on existing literature, and illustrates a case study on how an improvement project apply theory and methodology of change management to make successful change. Firstly, the literature review relevant to concerns for support change in a business environment is introduced. General tools, models, and solutions to make a change effectively in an organization are explained. Next one framework with relevant tools and models are selected to the case study that conducts a manufacturing with ETO (Engineering-to-order) product. Next regarding the readiness for change, and the implementation of the change the paper introduces how the selected framework and the tools and models on change management is integrated with project management during different phases of the improvement project. As a result, it shows a success both from improvement project and change management perspective. In particular, achievement in the change management is not only showing the successful improvement project, but also the organization realizes another great positive change - people's improved behavior on daily work. Hence a long-term benefit from the improvement project and change management is gained. The achievement shows that similar approach on change management in an organization may be applied to more organizations.
In this article, I would like to share my daughter's experience on self-STEAM education. In our daily life, she can always find problems and then dream them with her imagination, finally narrows down her solutions to solve problems in her own way. During these problem-solving processes, I noticed that she went through sciences, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics in a very natural way. So I would like to say, STEAM is the way we learn and grow ever since we were born. But later at school, we are trained in a way that subjects are completely disconnected. It might take time to change this situation at school, but at home, as parents, we need to realize that children can discover new things by themselves even from young ages, and provide rich learning environment for them and let them "STEAM " themselves in their own way.
Traffic flow prediction is very important in the deployment of intelligent transportation system. Based on our previous research on deep learning approach for traffic data prediction, we further evaluates the performance of the SAE model for traffic flow prediction at daytime and nighttime. Through 250 experimental tasks training a SAE model and evaluating its performance at daytime and nighttime with 3 different criteria, we obtain the best combination of hyper parameters for each criterion at different times on weekday and non-weekday, respectively. Experimental results show that the MAE and RMSE at daytime are larger than that at nighttime, while the MRE at daytime are smaller than that at nighttime. For different criteria, the hyper parameters of the SAE model should vary accordingly. The results in this paper indicate that in real applications, traffic flow prediction using the deep learning approach can be a combination of multiple SAE models with different parameters suitable for different periods, which is of significance in future research.
Monitoring target through satellite images is widely used in intelligence analysis and for anomaly detection. Meanwhile, it is also challenging due to the shooting conditions and the huge amounts of data. We propose a method for target monitoring based on deep convolutional neural networks (DCNN). The method is implemented by three procedures: (i) Label the target and generate the dataset, (ii) train a classifier, and (iii) monitor the target. First, the target area is labelled manually to form a dataset. In the second stage a classifier based on DCNN using Keras library is well-trained. In the last stage the target is monitored in the test satellite images. The method was tested on two different application scenarios. The results show that the mothed is effective.
The attitude control ability of the robot in the air is needed when we design a robot that can jump, run, climb and land. With such a robot, we can reduce the damage caused by the wrong dropping posture. As we all know, when a free-falling cat drops from upside-down with no initial angular momentum, she can always right herself and land on her feet safely. Inspired by the free-falling cat, we studied the application of a modified quasi-Newton algorithm to obtain the optimal trajectory of a falling cat robot. To get the optimal trajectory, firstly, we formulated the mathematical equation based on the model of two identical axial symmetric cylinders, as it is impossible to integrate the velocity constraint into position constraint about time, we transformed the control of a falling cat robot to nonholonomic motion planning problem. Then, using Ritz approximation theory, we discussed a modified quasi-Newton algorithm for trajectory planning of a falling cat robot. Finally, we verified our algorithm through simulation. The results show that the algorithm is an effective one for a falling cat robot problem.
Central Pattern Generator (CPG) can be used to generate rhythmic control signals for quadruped locomotion, such as walk, trot, and gallop gait. The walk gait is a statically stable quadruped gait, and suitable for enhancing the robustness of robots. However, as a result of lacking consideration of dynamics characteristics of robots, the swing phase of control signals generated by CPG may be not consistent with the actual phase of the quadruped limb. For example, there is a fact in walk gait that the control signal generated by CPG is in swing phase, while the quadruped limb is still in contact with the ground. So we attach the force sensor on the quadruped foot to detect the real-time foot contact force when a quadruped robot walks on the ground substrate, and the actual contact-lift state of the limb. Using the foot contact force information, we accurately obtain the difference between the theoretical-actual swing phase. Moreover, we discuss that foot-substrate contact force can be used to distinguish the ground substrate with different properties such as friction coefficient. Experiment results show the possibility to utilize force sensor information for ground substrate recognition and classification.
Lower-limb rehabilitation robots can support the training of patients with neurological gait disorders. Compared to the robot-driven control strategy which permits patients to remain passive during the training, Patient-driven control strategy can motivate the patient's participation and accelerate the rehabilitation process. In this paper, based on a self-developed lower-limb rehabilitation robot, a patient-driven control method is developed and implemented to realize a patient-in-charge gait training strategy. During the training, the proposed control algorithm adapts the motion pattern of the robot according to the estimated patient's voluntary efforts and increases the patient's movement freedom by a certain amount of robot compliance. By adjusting the parameters, the degree of robot compliance can be set based on the patient's voluntary abilities. Experiment results are presented to evaluate the basic principal and technical function of the proposed method and show positive for improving the subject's voluntary contribution during the training.
In this paper, we propose a general framework of a distributed vision system combining pedestrian features with a static map of a mobile robot. In indoor environment with complex architectural structures, mobile robots cannot find the optimal global path only with the static map except moving objects such as pedestrians outside the view of sensors. Therefore, we propose a new calibration approach about the transformation from the pedestrian features in distributed webcams to those in the static map. Robot Operating System (ROS) is used for the mobile robot static map building, global path planning, localization and navigation with the laser scanner. And webcams scattered in indoor environment are available for the distributed vision calibration and pedestrian detection. We assume that light conditions of all the webcams remain relatively constant in indoor environment, then multi-scale Histograms of Oriented Gradients (HOG) slid on normalized sub images accelerates the pedestrian detection, and we also test the detection using convolutional neural networks (CNN). Next, detected features are calculated with calibration parameters and added on the static map. Finally, a real-time global path is planned for our mobile robot given the dynamic map.
This paper introduces an image registration method for surgical robots. Force/torque transducer is fixed onto the robot and the surficial feature of the intraoperative operating space could be obtained with human-robot cooperation way. The ICP registration algorithm is used to calculate the transform matrix between the intraoperative operating space and the preoperative planned space. Experiments were carried out on a 3D printed bone and the performance was evaluated.
In recent years, humanoid robots have received a lot of attention. Many types of humanoid robots have been developed. For humanoid robots, human-like torso features are essential in obtaining humanlike motion features. However, there is still no satisfied torso design among them with their limited kinematic or dynamic features. It is necessary to carry out a deep study of human torso with the aim to get more inspirations from it. For this purpose, a characterization of human torso is carried out from a perspective of robotics. Then, a literature review of current humanoid robots which have torsos more or less inspired from human spine is presented, and some representative robot torsos are analyzed in detail in order to find possible ways to improve the current design. Based on these two aspects, analysis and discussions are given as benefit for a better torso design for humanoid robots.
Humanoid robots are considered to be ideal partner in future life for human beings, thus have great application prospects and attracted much attention. Bionics can bring researchers inspirations and lead to great achievements, for example, bipedal walking and dual-arm coordination have been made by bionics. Spine plays an important role in human body motion with unique structure and brilliant properties, but spinal structure is rarely used in humanoid robots. An analysis of the mechanical properties, function in body motion and walking of human spine is presented based on studying its structure and interaction with attaching muscles and other tissues, with the aim to reveal the true regulatory principle of spine and give some inspirations for torso design of humanoid robots.
With the continuous development of modern surveying and mapping technology, robotics has been gradually adopted to achieve the autonomous digital measurements. In this paper, a mobile robot platform is designed and controlled to travel inside the Adit environment to collect data for 3D reconstruction and measurement. In traditional control applications, PID-based methods(PID) are widely used for the motion servo control and present good performance in most cases. However, for some nonlinear systems, especially for the complicated applications in Adit environment, traditional PID-based method cannot get desired results. Meanwhile PID controller with fractional order(FPID) can have better control effect than traditional integer order PID controllers and is addressed in the application for the mobile robot platform inside the Adit. In this paper, a mobile robot platform is designed and the servo control system of the mobile robot platform is designed and analyzed. Meanwhile, a motion controller based on fractional order PID method is designed. With the following simulations, performance of the presented method is compared with that of traditional integer order PID method which shows that the fractional order PID controller is easy to design and has the ability of fast response and robust.
Nowadays, in China, Weibo is becoming an increasingly popular way for people to know what is happening in the world. Labelling topics is of much importance for better understanding the semantics of topics. Existing works mainly focus on deriving candidate labels by exploring the use of external knowledge, which may be more appropriate for well formatted and static documents. Recently, it has been a new trend to generate labels for sparse and dynamic microblogging environment using summarization method. The challenges of labelling topics are how to obtain coherent candidate labels and how to rank the labels. In this paper, based on the latest research work in deep learning, we propose a novel and unified model for labelling topics in Weibo, which firstly adopts word embedding and clustering method to learn dense semantic representation of topic words and mine the coherent candidate topic labels, then, generates interpretable labels using a graph-based model. Experimental results show that topics labels discovered by our model not only have high topic coherence, but also are meaningful and interpretable.
This paper proposes a compact face representation for face recognition. The face with landmark points in the image is detected and then used to generate transformed face regions. Different types of regions form the transformed face region datasets, and face networks are trained. A novel forward model selection algorithm is designed to simultaneously select the complementary face models and generate the compact representation. Employing a public dataset as training set and fusing by only six selected face networks, the recognition system with this compact face representation achieves 99.05% accuracy on LFW benchmark.
Iris recognition is a reliable method to protect the security of mobile devices. Low resolution (LR) iris images are inevitably acquired by mobile devices, which makes mobile iris recognition very challenging. This paper adopts two pixel level super-resolution (SR) methods: Super-Resolution Convolutional Neural Networks (SRCNN) and Super-Resolution Forests (SRF). The SR methods are conducted on the normalized iris images to recover more iris texture. Ordinal measures (OMs) are applied to extract robust iris features and the Hamming distance is used to calculate the matching score. Experiments are performed on two mobile iris databases. Results show that the pixel level SR technology has limited effectiveness in improving the iris recognition accuracy. The SRCNN and SRF methods get comparable recognition results. The SRF method is much faster at both the training and testing stage.
This paper proposes a new method for facial expression recognition, called multi-scale CNNs. It consists several sub-CNNs with different scales of input images. The sub-CNNs of multi-scale CNNs are benefited from various scaled input images to learn the optimalized parameters. After trained all these sub-CNNs separately, we can predict the facial expression of an image by extracting its features from the last fully connected layer of sub-CNNs in different scales and mapping the averaged features to the final classification probability. Multi-scale CNNs can classify facial expression more accurately than any single scale sub-CNN. On Facial Expression Recognition 2013 database, multi-scale CNNs achieved an accuracy of 71.80% on the testing set, which is comparative to other state-of-the-art methods.
The functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) data of both the ventral pathway and the dorsal pathway on the visual cortex in a classification task was analyzed. We found that the classification performance improved hierarchically from lower-level regions to higher-level regions in both pathways, which partly verified the visual pathway theory proposed in cognitive neuroscience. Moreover, the LO (Lateral Occipital), V3a and V3b fMRI data were good classification basis no worse than the widely-used features such as GIST, HOG and LBP. It indicated that imitating the activity patterns of visual cortex to design new feature-extraction algorithms might be favorable. Finally, the performance of V3a and V3b voxels were very close to that of LO voxels. Consequently, in the design of brain-like intelligence systems, we should consider the coordination mechanism between the two pathways rather than focusing on the ventral pathway alone. The relationship of human visual pathway and deep learning structure was also discussed tersely.
User-centric academic resource service platforms are essential for scientific researchers, since hundreds of new literatures and data sets are produced every single day, and no one can keep him/herself most up-to-date and handle these resources to find, read and understand the most relevant ones completely manually. In this paper, we introduce some user interests analysis methods and apply them to build personalized recommendation services as a user-centric sub system for the Linked Brain Data (LBD) platform, which is an integrated data and knowledge platform for users, especially Neuroscientists and Artificial Intelligence researchers, to explore and better understand the brain and support their research. For interests analysis, we obtain user related data from relatively static data sources (e.g. user profiles maintained by uses), and more dynamic resources (e.g. publications and online social network contents generated by users, which are with chronological information). For recommendation service, we automatically recommend extracted knowledge in the brain association graph and related articles based on the understanding of research interests of the LBD platform users. Through use case studies, we illustrate the importance and potential value of user-centric services for brain and neuroscience related research.
Obstacle detection is crucial for intelligent systems (e.g. robots, unmanned ariel vehicle) that interact with the real world. This paper proposes a brain-inspired rasterization algorithm for obstacle detection. Rasterization algorithm is inspired by the information processing mechanism of the biological brain (including arthropod brain and human brain). Obstacle detection relies on feed forward and feed backward information processing mechanism. Receptive fields in every level of abstraction transmit different sizes of image regions to higher levels. Feedback is related to modulating attention about the position and size of target receptive field. Inspired by the circuit in human vision system, this paper provides a computational model for obstacle detection. Good performance on the experiments supports the proposed theoretical model. The major contribution of the proposed brain-inspired rasterization algorithm is that it can detect obstacle in any size from any direction without any preprocessing.
Person re-identification is challenging due to the large variations of pose, illumination, occlusion and camera view. Owing to these variations, the pedestrian data is distributed as highly-curved manifolds in the feature space, despite the current convolutional neural networks (CNN)'s capability of feature extraction. However, the distribution is unknown, so it is difficult to use the geodesic distance when comparing two samples. In practice, the current deep embedding methods use the Euclidean distance for the training and test. On the other hand, the manifold learning methods suggest to use the Euclidean distance in the local range, combining with the graphical relationship between samples, for approximating the geodesic distance. From this point of view, selecting suitable positive (i.e. intra-class) training samples within a local range is critical for training the CNN embedding, especially when the data has large intra-class variations. In this paper, we propose a novel moderate positive sample mining method to train robust CNN for person re-identification, dealing with the problem of large variation. In addition, we improve the learning by a metric weight constraint, so that the learned metric has a better generalization ability. Experiments show that these two strategies are effective in learning robust deep metrics for person re-identification, and accordingly our deep model significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on several benchmarks of person re-identification. Therefore, the study presented in this paper may be useful in inspiring new designs of deep models for person re-identification.
The performance of existing image dehazing methods is limited by hand-designed features, such as the dark channel, color disparity and maximum contrast, with complex fusion schemes. In this paper, we propose a multi-scale deep neural network for single-image dehazing by learning the mapping between hazy images and their corresponding transmission maps. The proposed algorithm consists of a coarse-scale net which predicts a holistic transmission map based on the entire image, and a fine-scale net which refines results locally. To train the multi-scale deep network, we synthesize a dataset comprised of hazy images and corresponding transmission maps based on the NYU Depth dataset. Extensive experiments demonstrate that the proposed algorithm performs favorably against the state-of-the-art methods on both synthetic and real-world images in terms of quality and speed.
Visual fashion analysis has attracted many attentions in the recent years. Previous work represented clothing regions by either bounding boxes or human joints. This work presents fashion landmark detection or fashion alignment, which is to predict the positions of functional key points defined on the fashion items, such as the corners of neckline, hemline, and cuff. To encourage future studies, we introduce a fashion landmark dataset (The dataset is available at http://mmlab.ie.cuhk.edu.hk/projects/DeepFashion/LandmarkDetection.html.) with over 120K images, where each image is labeled with eight landmarks. With this dataset, we study fashion alignment by cascading multiple convolutional neural networks in three stages. These stages gradually improve the accuracies of landmark predictions. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method, as well as its generalization ability to pose estimation. Fashion landmark is also compared to clothing bounding boxes and human joints in two applications, fashion attribute prediction and clothes retrieval, showing that fashion landmark is a more discriminative representation to understand fashion images.
Clustering faces in movies or videos is extremely challenging since characters' appearance can vary drastically under different scenes. In addition, the various cinematic styles make it difficult to learn a universal face representation for all videos. Unlike previous methods that assume fixed handcrafted features for face clustering, in this work, we formulate a joint face representation adaptation and clustering approach in a deep learning framework. The proposed method allows face representation to gradually adapt from an external source domain to a target video domain. The adaptation of deep representation is achieved without any strong supervision but through iteratively discovered weak pairwise identity constraints derived from potentially noisy face clustering result. Experiments on three benchmark video datasets demonstrate that our approach generates character clusters with high purity compared to existing video face clustering methods, which are either based on deep face representation (without adaptation) or carefully engineered features.
Human action recognition from well-segmented 3D skeleton data has been intensively studied and has been attracting an increasing attention. Online action detection goes one step further and is more challenging, which identifies the action type and localizes the action positions on the fly from the untrimmed stream data. In this paper, we study the problem of online action detection from streaming skeleton data. We propose a multi-task end-to-end Joint Classification-Regression Recurrent Neural Network to better explore the action type and temporal localization information. By employing a joint classification and regression optimization objective, this network is capable of automatically localizing the start and end points of actions more accurately. Specifically, by leveraging the merits of the deep Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) subnetwork, the proposed model automatically captures the complex long-range temporal dynamics, which naturally avoids the typical sliding window design and thus ensures high computational efficiency. Furthermore, the sub-task of regression optimization provides the ability to forecast the action prior to its occurrence. To evaluate our proposed model, we build a large streaming video dataset with annotations. Experimental results on our dataset and the public G3D dataset both demonstrate very promising performance of our scheme.
Learning deeper convolutional neural networks has become a tendency in recent years. However, many empirical evidences suggest that performance improvement cannot be attained by simply stacking more layers. In this paper, we consider the issue from an information theoretical perspective, and propose a novel method Relay Backpropagation, which encourages the propagation of effective information through the network in training stage. By virtue of the method, we achieved the first place in ILSVRC 2015 Scene Classification Challenge. Extensive experiments on two large scale challenging datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our method is not restricted to a specific dataset or network architecture.
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have been widely used in computer vision community, significantly improving the state-of-the-art. In most of the available CNNs, the softmax loss function is used as the supervision signal to train the deep model. In order to enhance the discriminative power of the deeply learned features, this paper proposes a new supervision signal, called center loss, for face recognition task. Specifically, the center loss simultaneously learns a center for deep features of each class and penalizes the distances between the deep features and their corresponding class centers. More importantly, we prove that the proposed center loss function is trainable and easy to optimize in the CNNs. With the joint supervision of softmax loss and center loss, we can train a robust CNNs to obtain the deep features with the two key learning objectives, inter-class dispension and intra-class compactness as much as possible, which are very essential to face recognition. It is encouraging to see that our CNNs (with such joint supervision) achieve the state-of-the-art accuracy on several important face recognition benchmarks, Labeled Faces in the Wild (LFW), YouTube Faces (YTF), and MegaFace Challenge. Especially, our new approach achieves the best results on MegaFace (the largest public domain face benchmark) under the protocol of small training set (contains under 500000 images and under 20000 persons), significantly improving the previous results and setting new state-of-the-art for both face recognition and face verification tasks.
In this paper, a novel autonomous learning framework is proposed. Different form the traditional learning framework, which maps environment to the action space directly, the new method abstracts behavior policies from the demonstrations and expresses it with a parameterized model. Based on the parameterized policies, cost function and environment constraints are generated, which together with the dynamic constraints of the robot are used to optimize the decision actions. A simulation on the grid world proved the effectiveness of the proposed method.
The theory of reinforcement learning has been used to explain how animals use rewards to adjust their behavior. It has been proposed that the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) may provide task state information during learning, but the nature of its neural encoding is not clear. Here we propose a neural network model of the OFC using a reservoir network. The reservoir receives sensory inputs and reward inputs just as the OFC does. The connections within the reservoir are sparse and randomly assigned. The neurons in the reservoir exhibit heterogeneous and dynamical responses. The learning shapes its readout. We show the model reproduces the animals' behavior in a classical reversal learning experiment. Neurons in the reservoir encode state information. We also make predictions based on the model that can be experimentally tested in the future.
Unsupervised image classification is an important means to obtain land-use/cover information in the field of remote sensing, since it does not require initial knowledge (training samples) for classification. Traditional methods such as k-means and Iterative self-organizing data analysis technique (ISODATA) have limitations in solving this NP-hard unsupervised classification problem, mainly due to their strict assumptions about the data distribution. The bee colony optimization (BCO) is a new type of swarm intelligence, based upon which a simple and novel unsupervised bee colony optimization (UBCO) method is proposed for remote-sensing image classification. UBCO possesses powerful exploitation and exploration capacities that are carried out by employed bees, onlookers, and scouts. This allows the promising regions to be globally searched quickly and thoroughly, without becoming trapped on local optima. In addition, it has no restrictions on data distribution, and thus is especially suitable for handling complex remote-sensing data. We tested the method on the Zhalong National Nature Reserve (ZNNR) - a typical inland wetland ecosystem in China, whose landscape is heterogeneous. The preliminary results showed that UBCO (overall accuracy = 80.81%) achieved statistically significant better classification result (McNemar test) in comparison with traditional k-means (63.11%) and other intelligent clustering methods built on genetic algorithm (unsupervised genetic algorithm (UGA), 71.49%), differential evolution (unsupervised differential evolution (UDE), 77.57%), and particle swarm optimization (unsupervised particle swarm optimization (UPSO), 69.86%). The robustness and superiority of UBCO were also demonstrated from the two other study sites next to the ZNNR with distinct landscapes (urban and natural landscapes). Enabling one to consistently find the optimal or nearly optimal global solution in image clustering, the UBCO is thus suggested as a robust method for unsupervised remote-sensing image classification, especially in the case of heterogeneous areas.
In this article, we proposed a novel method based on deep learning shape priors for object extraction in high-resolution (HR) remote-sensing images. Specifically, the deep Boltzmann machines (DBMs) are applied to model the shape priors via the unsupervised training process, which qualify for the advantages of deep learning method, especially the powerful feature learning and modelling ability. The deep shape model is integrated into a new energy function to eliminate the influence of disturbing background. The energy function combines image appearance information and region information. A new region term in the function is proposed to eliminate the influence of object shadow. The process of object extraction is achieved by minimizing the energy function with an iterative optimization algorithm and the Split Bregman method is applied to derive a global solution during the minimization process. Quantitative and qualitative experiments are conducted on the aircraft data set acquired by QuickBird with 60 cm resolution and the results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Residential energy scheduling on demand side is a hot research area for saving energy and balancing loads. In this paper, an adaptive dynamic programming method is proposed for residential energy scheduling to reduce cost between two adjacent housing units. Two sets of storage batteries and solar stations make energy scheduling problems quite complicated while using traditional methods. The scheduling algorithm is designed based on action dependent heuristic dynamic programming. In the utility function, the weighting function is given to adjust the remaining capacities of batteries. Furthermore, the temperature becomes an input of neural networks to stay close to reality. Simulation results show the effectiveness of saving cost and balancing loads.
Energy consumption of an office building is generally divided into energy consumptions from sockets, lights and air-conditioners, which are measured in each room of the office building by three ammeters installed inside, respectively. On the other hand, an office building generally consists of several types of rooms, i.e., office rooms, computer rooms, storage rooms, meeting rooms, etc., the energy consumption of which varies in accordance with different working routines in each type of room. In this paper, several novel reservoir topologies of echo state network (ESN) are proposed, and ESNs with different reservoir topologies are applied to predicting energy consumption of rooms in an office building. A case study shows that the proposed simplified reservoir topologies are sufficient to achieve outstanding performance of ESN in the prediction of building energy consumption.
Image sharpness is one of the most determining factors for image readability and scene understanding. How to accurately quantify it is a hot topic. This paper systematically validates a previously proposed index for full-reference image sharpness assessment (edge preservation ratio, EPR). Based on Gaussian blurring images in LIVE, CSIQ, TID2008 and TID2013 databases, we firstly evaluated EPR accuracy on five edge detectors on LIVE and selected an optimal one for further analysis. Then nine state-of-the-art image quality assessment metrics are compared, including full-reference, no reference and dedicated image sharpness assessment categories. Experimental results demonstrate (1) Canny is an optimal edge detector for EPR implementation; (2) EPR is a top-ranking image sharpness assessment metric that outperforms PSNR and SSIM and rivals FSIM; and (3) EPR accords more closely with human subjective judgment than involved image sharpness assessment metrics. This study also indicates that image sharpness assessment is still full of challenges and utilizing deep learning architectures to learning the direct mapping from images to quality will be a trend in the near future.
This paper introduces a slope detection method based on point cloud data from 3D LiDAR for quadruped robots in unknown environments. For quadruped robots, they need to adjust their gaits according to different slope angles to avoid some potential dangers. 3D LiDAR is used to gather point cloud data, which is superior to 2D LiDAR in speed and accuracy. In this paper, a slope detection method using bilateral filtering and RANSAC algorithms is discussed. The experiments of slope detection are fulfilled with the consideration of different angles of slopes and different orientations to the slopes, and the results demonstrate that errors of angle estimation is small.
In this paper, a path planning of grid method based on RFID technology is presented. In the traditional sense, the grid method adopts the random searching, and uses the continuous subdivision of the grid to obtain the optimal path, so it would increase the difficulty of the path planning. Here, the grid method based on RFID technology is applied to achieve the optimal path planning globally via RFID and computer information interaction. Simulation experiment results demonstrate that the method can be used to effectively solve the problem of obstacle avoidance and path identification for intelligent robots patrolling.
In this paper, the problem of fast badminton localization problem is investigated for a class of badminton robots. More precisely, a manifold-learning based localization method is implemented for the improvement of hitting accuracy and effectiveness. Based on the localization results, a novel badminton trajectory prediction algorithm is designed based on 3D Vision in the real world. Furthermore, clock-synchronization combined with motion compensation methods are also proposed to better localization error elimination. In the end, the validity and usefulness of our proposed algorithm is demonstrated by numerical experiments.
This paper is concerned with the exponential stability analysis for time-delay systems. First, two new weighted integral inequalities are presented based on the auxiliary function-based integral inequalities. In the new weighted integral inequalities, unlike previous studies, exponentially weighted integral vectors are used to find the lower bounds of the weighted integral quadratic terms. Then, by utilizing the new weighted integral inequalities, a new linear matrix inequality (LMI) condition is derived for the exponential stability of the considered time-delay systems. Finally, the numerical examples are conducted to validate the effectiveness of the new LMI condition. The example results show that the LMI condition derived in this paper is less conservative than existing ones in analyzing exponential stability of the considered systems.
In this paper, we introduce an active annotation and learning framework for the face recognition task. Starting with an initial label deficient face image training set, we iteratively train a deep neural network and use this model to choose the examples for further manual annotation. We follow the active learning strategy and derive the Value of Information criterion to actively select candidate annotation images. During these iterations, the deep neural network is incrementally updated. Experimental results conducted on LFW benchmark and MS-Celeb-1M challenge demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed framework.
This paper introduces an GPS(Global Position Systems) location method based on articicial neural networks. Because the signal of GPS receiver is usually influenced surrounding environment, is difficult to obtain continuous and exact location data. A method based on Artificial Neural Network (ANN) is used to predict short time location information to guarantee real-time accurate navigation information. Simulation results have shown that the given method can obtain a certain precision and the approach is applicable.
The indoor mobile robots have been widely employed in manufacturing and service industries in recently years. However, the conventional simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) method is mainly meant for mobile robots with traditional drives (differential drive and Ackerman steering) that have the coupled translation and rotation motions. Hence, the translation error will affect the heading estimations of the mobile robot, and the accuracy of the FastSLAM algorithm will be reduced over the time. In addition, mobile robots with traditional drives are not suitable for narrow, crowded indoor environment with lots of obstacles. In this paper, an improved FastSLAM algorithm based on Omni-directional wheeled mobile robot is proposed. Computer simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the method. This paper provides a methodology to solve the indoor SLAM.
The structure parameters of fast-steering mirror (FSM) might change with time goes by. In order to reduce the impact of this change on the output performance of FSM system, an incomplete derivative fuzzy PID control system is proposed. This control system can effectively improve the time domain quality of FSM system by optimizing the PID control parameters online. First, the dynamic model of FSM is established. Second, the initial parameters of the incomplete derivative PID control system are designed according to the frequency domain quality of the closed-loop system. Then, the rules and related factors of the fuzzy controller are designed on the basis of the initial parameters. Finally, simulation experiments are carried out. The results show that the incomplete derivative PID control system has shorter adjustment time, less overshoot and lower dependence on the parameters of FSM when compared with the fixed parameters PID control system.
A facile approach has been developed to prepare well-designed MoS2-based flexible anisotropic actuators with tunable thermo-and photo-responses, in which MoS2 nanosheets act as the photothermal transduction agents and enable remote and precise control of the actuator locomotion. Taking advantage of the dual-responsive behaviors, programmable locomotion, reversible deformation, good mechanical properties and biocompatibility, the MoS2-based flexible anisotropic actuators are very promising in soft robotics for future intelligent applications.
Geological disaster recognition, especially, landslide recognition, is of vital importance in disaster prevention, disaster monitoring and other applications. As more and more optical remote sensing images are available in recent years, landslide recognition on optical remote sensing images is in demand. Therefore, in this paper, we propose a deep learning based landslide recognition method for optical remote sensing images. In order to capture more distinct features hidden in landslide images, a particular wavelet transformation is proposed to be used as the preprocessing method. Next, a corrupting & denoising method is proposed to enhance the robustness of the model in recognize landslide features. Then, a deep auto-encoder network with multiple hidden layers is proposed to learn the high-level features and representations of each image. A softmax classifier is used for class prediction. Experiments are conducted on the remote sensing images from Google Earth. The experimental results indicate that the proposed wavDAE method outperforms the state-of-the-art classifiers both in efficiency and accuracy. (C) 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V.
The correctness of implementation codes is important especially for safety-critical software usually written in C programming language. We present a correctness verification method (CVM for short) for C codes based on an automatic theorem proving tool-VCC, and propose a specification simplification method to improve the correctness and readability of verification specification codes. Using CVM method, the scheduling module of a real-time operating system FreeRTOS6.1.1 is verified, which shows the feasibility and effectiveness when CVM method is applied to the real production software. Experiments show that the CVM method is feasible and effective in verifying the correctness the C codes, and the specification simplification method is also effective.
Eutrophication has become a serious environment problem in many parts of the world and Chlorophyll-a concentration is one of the important parameters for the characterization of water quality, which reflects the degree of eutrophication and algae content in the water body. So establishing a forecasting model to predict the chlorophyll-a concentration in evaluation of eutrophication become more urgent. In this paper, a hybrid model of least squares support vector regression optimized by improved particle swarm optimization and radial basis function neural networks (IPSO-LSSVR-RBFNN) was proposed, which effectively modifying the forecasting accuracy by extracting the useful information in the error term of the traditional methods. A real monthly dataset that collected from a typical reservoir in China during 2010-2012 and two public datasets were used to evaluate the performance of the proposed hybrid model. From the experiment results, we can see that the proposed model of IPSO-LSSVR-RBFNN achieve a higher accuracy rate compared with other models.
Impressive achievements have been achieved over the years in object recognition and 3D pose estimation while detecting objects and estimating their 3D poses reliably is still a very challenging problem, especially for texture-less objects in heavily cluttered scenes. In this paper, we introduce an improved approach based on multi-stage feature learning to identify object as well as their 3D orientation efficiently. Our approach is motivated by visual neuroscience models. Currently similar architectures have been successfully applied to pedestrian detection, traffic recognition, face representation, etc. We compute the feature descriptors by multi-stage convolutional neural networks (CNNs) which could map the object identity and 3D poses to the Euclidean distance space by evaluating the similarity between descriptors. By contrast with classical approaches, our method relies on fast and approximate Nearest Neighbor (NN) matching to solve the large scale problems instead of one classifier per object or multi-class classifiers whose complexity grows rapidly with the number of objects. The experiments of detecting poorly-textured objects in cluttered scenarios have been carried out to verify the effectiveness and efficacy of the proposed approach.
The Solar Broadband Radio Spectrometer (SBRS) monitors the solar radio busts all day long and produces solar radio astronomical big data foranalysis every day, which usually have been accumulated in mass images for scientific study over decades. In the observed mass data, burst events are rare and always along with interference, so it seems impossible to identify whether the mass data contain bursts or not and figure out which type of burst it is by manual operation timely. Therefore, we take advantage of high performance computing and machine learning techniques to classify the huge volume astronomical imaging data automatically. The professional line of multiple NVIDIA GPUs has been exploited to deliver 78x faster parallel processing power for high performance computing of the astronomical big data, and neural networks have been utilized to learn the representations of the solar radio spectra. Experimental results have demonstrated that the employed network can effectively classify a solar radio image into the labeled categories. Moreover, the processing time is dramatically reduced by exploring GPU parallel computing environment.
This paper focuses on a practically very important problem of matching a real-world product photo to exactly the same item(s) in online shopping sites. The task is extremely challenging because the user photos (i.e., the queries in this scenario) are often captured in uncontrolled environments, while the product images in online shops are mostly taken by professionals with clean backgrounds and perfect lighting conditions. To tackle the problem, we study deep network architectures and training schemes, with the goal of learning a robust deep feature representation that is able to bridge the domain gap between the user photos and the online product images. Our contributions are two-fold. First, we propose an alternative of the popular contrastive loss used in siamese deep networks, namely robust contrastive loss, where we "relax" the penalty on positive pairs to alleviate over-fitting. Second, a multi-task fine-tuning approach is introduced to learn a better feature representation, which not only incorporates knowledge from the provided training photo pairs, but also explores additional information from the large ImageNet dataset to regularize the fine-tuning procedure. Experiments on two challenging real-world datasets demonstrate that both the robust contrastive loss and the multi-task fine-tuning approach are effective, leading to very promising results with a time cost suitable for real-time retrieval.
Purpose - This paper aims to propose a novel design concept for a biomimetic dolphin-like underwater glider, which can offer the advantages of both robotic dolphins and underwater gliders to achieve high-maneuverability, high-speed and long-distance motions.
Classification is a hot topic in hyperspectral remote sensing community. In the last decades, numerous efforts have been concentrated on the classification problem. Most of the existing studies and research efforts are following the conventional pattern recognition paradigm, which is based on complex handcrafted features. However, it is rarely known which features are important for the problem. In this paper, a new classification skeleton based on deep machine learning is proposed for hyperspectral data. The proposed classification framework, which is composed of exponential momentum deep convolution neural network and support vector machine (SVM), can hierarchically construct high-level spectral-spatial features in an automated way. Experimental results and quantitative validation on widely used datasets showcase the potential of the developed approach for accurate hyperspectral data classification.
In this paper, the problem of rudder-roll damping control for a class of cruise keeping ships subject to both actuator fault and state saturation is investigated. A manoeuvring and rudder control model of marine vessels is firstly reviewed based on the existing literature. Actuator faults which including partial loss of rudder effectiveness and actuator-bias faults are considered in the model. Then a switching control strategy is developed to compensate for the actuator faults and to guarantee the stability of the rudder-roll damping control system. Moreover, some relationship regarding state saturation bounds, actuator fault limits and control parameters are analyzed in this paper. Finally, simulation results are given to illustrate the proposed procedures and their effectiveness.
Industrial robots with a force-controlled end-effector module can perform continuous contact operations, such as chamfering, deburring, and polishing. However, the commercially available force-controlled end-effector modules only have one degree-of-freedom (DOF) with limited dexterity. In this work, a 3-legged Prismatic-Prismatic-Spherical (3PPS) parallel manipulator is proposed for the development of a dexterous 3-DOF (theta(x) - theta(y) - Z) force-controlled end-effector module. As the 3PPS parallel manipulator has a unique kinematic characteristics, i.e., zero-torsion rotations, its orientation can be always represented by a rotation about an axis fall on the x-y plane of the reference coordinate frame. Utilizing such a kinematic equivalence, the kinematic design issues, such as displacement, singularity, and workspace analyses, are significantly simplified. In addition, to generalize the kinematic analysis algorithms for design optimization, the passive prismatic joint in each leg is placed with a tilting angle with respect to the horizontal plane. Simulation results are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed analysis algorithms.
For a conventional Corner Matching Method (CMM), a corner is identified only when two edges of the corner are sensed (scanned). Utilizing the geometric features of sharp corners, a novel and general CMM method is proposed in this paper. The major advantage of this approach over the conventional CMM is that a corner with only one sensed edge can be identified through comparing the scan data between two subsequent sensed points in the same scan, as a sharp corner with only one edge sensed will cause two adjacent scan data an abrupt change. In order to identify the same corner point in two adjacent scans, an effective corner matching algorithm is formulated based on the distance matrix constructed from the corner points identified in each scan. Finally, with two or more matched corner points between two adjacent scans, the change of the robot pose (position and orientation) can be accurately estimated. As the proposed approach only deals with the point data, it is computationally efficient. The effectiveness of this approach is validated through experiments.
This paper proposes a deep learning approach for accelerating magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using a large number of existing high quality MR images as the training datasets. An off-line convolutional neural network is designed and trained to identify the mapping relationship between the MR images obtained from zero-filled and fully-sampled k-space data. The network is not only capable of restoring fine structures and details but is also compatible with online constrained reconstruction methods. Experimental results on real MR data have shown encouraging performance of the proposed method for efficient and accurate imaging.
The dog breeds recognition is the topic of the MSR Image Recognition Challenge (IRC) @ IEEE ICME 2016. In order to sufficiently train the deep neural networks (DNNs) used in this domain-specific image recognition task, we append two high quality public dog datasets and one noisy dog pictures dataset crawled from web to the Clickture-Dog dataset provided by the Challenge. At the preprocessing stage, we enhance the edge of images to emphasize the boundaries of the dogs in image. At the same stage, we adopt the multiscale training strategy on both the original images and images with edge enhancement. Therefore, we have total four different preprocessing configurations. Finally, we integrate 12 base-DNN sub-models and soft-max posteriors into a committee machine. We implement our recognition algorithm and convert it to Microsoft cloud service. Our team, named as NFS2016, get the third place in this challenge.
In this paper, we tackle the FINE-GRAINED VISUAL RECOGNITION problem by proposing a deep multi-context framework. We employ deep Convolutional Neural Networks to model features of objects in images. Global context and local context are both taken into consideration, and are jointly modeled in a unified multi-context deep learning framework. To cleanse the relatively dirty data for training, a regional proposal method is designed to make the multi-context modeling suited for fine-grained visual recognition in the real world. Furthermore, recently proposed contemporary deep models are used, and their combination is investigated. Our approaches are evaluated on MSR-IRC 2016 and further assessed on the more complex validation set. The results show significant and consistent improvements over the baseline.
Product image search aims to retrieve similar product images based on a query image. While deep learning based features work well in retrieving images of the same category (e.g. "searching for T-shirts from all the clothing images"), they perform poorly when retrieving variants of images within the same category (e.g. "searching for uniform of Chelsea football club from all T-shirts image"), since it requires fine grained matching on image details. In this paper, we present a spatial quantization approach that utilizes spatial pyramid pooling (SPP) and vector of locally aggregated descriptors (VLAD) to extract more discriminative features for style-aware product search. By using the proposed spatial quantization, spatial information is encoded into the image feature to improve the fine grained product image search. Finally, the experiments on a large scale real world dataset provided by Alibaba large-scale image search challenge (ALISC) demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
The posture of a humanoid robot needs to be changed from lying state to others in order to complete required missions. With the rolling motion, it is possible for a humanoid robot to change lying state and adapt itself to the environmental uncertainties. The study of rolling motion for humanoid robots is fairly rare. This paper proposed a highly dynamic whole-body rolling motion. The planned rolling motion trajectories were based on the motion of human rolling, and meet the constraints of dynamic stability and multi-points contact conditions. The trajectory of the center of mass (CoM) and environmental constraints were calculated by dividing whole-body motion into upper and lower body movement. The effectiveness of proposed method was confirmed by dynamic simulation on a virtual humanoid robot.
Human action recognition is a challenging vision task due to the complex action patterns in the real-world videos. In this work, we propose a DeepAction Kernel Gaussian Process, which takes advantage of Gaussian process (GP) and deep learning, to capture the distinctive action characteristics. Specifically, we design a unified, deep and non-adjacent kernel structure within Gaussian process to classify different actions. First, we design an adaptive GMM kernel (adGMMK) to encode the low-level features of different actions in a specific manner. Second, inspired by the theoretical connections between neural network and GP, we transform our shallow kernels into deep kernels to learn actions with their high-level representations. Finally, we propose a novel non-adjacent kernel framework to leverage the benefits from both shallow and deep kernels for action classification. Our experimental results on two benchmark data sets (HMDB51 and UCF101) show the superior performance of our approach, in comparison with several relevant works.
this paper presents a modular design scheme for miniature underwater robot used for swarm operations. Both the hardware circuit and the software structure are introduced. In this design, miniature underwater robots are composed of two kinds of modules, namely a core controller and a set of functional modules. The core controller is in charge of running the software that control the robot, while a functional module is an integration of both the hardware circuit and software to perform certain function. General connectors are used to connect a set of functional modules to the core controller, which accelerates the process of robot development. With this design scheme, two kinds of miniature underwater robots named Horseshoe Crab I and Horseshoe Crab II are developed for swarm operations, showing that this scheme can help develop miniature robot in short time and at low cost.
Recently many works using deep convolutional neural networks for image classification and retrieval have suggested that activations of the network layers (CNN activations) are able to serve as good descriptors. In this paper, we investigate two popular activations: fully connected and convolutional activations, and propose a simple but effective method for aggregating those local activations to compact global descriptors (MPFC-SPC). Firstly, we use max pooling of fully connected activations (MPFC) and sum pooling of convolutional activations (SPC) as aggregation methods. Then we blend MPFC and SPC descriptors according to the complementary properties between these two activations. Our method achieves competitive results compared with other related state-of-the-art CNN descriptors and almost doesn't increase time overhead. In addition, we perform multi-scale vector of locally aggregated descriptors (VLAD) on MPFC and SPC. Further improved performance with ensemble of multiple levels' descriptors verifies the effectiveness of our method.
Foreground detection is widely used in many applications of computer vision and artificial intelligence. In this paper, a novel online algorithm of detecting moving objects in complex scenes is proposed based on incremental non negative matrix factorization (INMF). In this algorithm, a new video frame is modeled as a linear combination of basis vectors of background subspace, plus a sparse term which denotes the foreground. In order to take advantage of non negative matrix factorization methods, the non negative constraints are applied on the update for the coefficient vector and background subspace. Traditionally in many algorithms, the foreground is considered as a pixel-wise sparse term although actually it is structured sparse. So in this paper structured sparsity-inducing norm is introduced to regularize foreground. Besides, in order to efficiently adapt to the dynamically changing background, the contribution of old and new frames can be balanced when updating the background subspace. Experiments on widely used dataset CDnet show that our algorithm has strong adaptability to complex scenes and can detect foreground accurately.
This paper aims to find a ball-picking optimal path and drives the robots to collect all the tennis in the shortest time, according to the optimal path. Thus, the work to be completed for us includes: establish agent model for robot working environment in tennis yard; analyze the advantage and shortcoming of ACO and provide an improved ACO. Our scheme improves the pheromone updating strategy. The global and local updates are integrated to strength the pheromone strength of optimal ant. Then we add the crossover and mutation operation of GA to speed the convergence of algorithm. By the simulation results analysis we find that the improved ACO has stronger optimizing ability and stability, which further improves the performance of ball-picking path.
The distributed tracking control of a group of manipulators under switching directed topologies is studied. Each manipulator is modeled by the Euler-Lagrange dynamics which includes uncertainties and external disturbances. The proposed controller has the neural network approximation unit for compensating uncertainties and the robust term for counteracting external disturbances. It can be proved that when the communication topology switches among a set of graphes which have a spanning tree and have no loop structure, the final tracking error can be reduced as small as possible.
Considering both state and control constraints, minimum-time trajectory planning (MTTP) can be implemented in an 'offline' way for overhead crane systems [1]. In this paper, we aim to establish a real-time trajectory planning model by using machine learning approaches to approximate those results obtained by MTTP. The fusion of machine learning regression approaches into the trajectory planning module is new and the application is promising for intelligent mechatronic systems. In particular, we first reformulate the considered trajectory planning problem in a three-segment form, where the acceleration and deceleration segments are symmetric. Then, the offline MTTP is applied to generate a database of minimum-time trajectories for the acceleration stage, based on which several regression approaches including Extreme Learning Machine (ELM) and Backpropagation Neural Network (BP) are adopt to approximate MTTP results with high accuracy. More important, the resulting model only contains a set of parameters, rather than a large volume of offline data, and thus machine learning based approaches could be implemented in low-cost digital signal processing chips required by industrial applications. Comparative evaluation results are provided to show the superior performance of the selected regression approach.
More and more robotic systems with lots of robotic individuals severs for human, such as intelligent terminal, intelligent storage, intelligence factory, etc. This is the trend of robotics technology, which will lead robotics system become huger with more individuals. Then, how to organize and manage this huge robotic system will be one important issue. This paper proposes hierarchical self-organizing approach to realize self-management, self-organization. Firstly, hierarchical self-organizing model is put forward and the process of formation is described in detail, which makes the organizing structure of system regularly. Secondly, this paper uses the improved hormone-inspired model (IHM) to establish relation between individuals, which considers topological structure of the organization, supports dynamic reconfiguration and self-organization, and requires no globally certain identifiers for individual robots. Finally, this paper presents the experimental results on swarm robotics system with a large scale of individuals to form a self-organization.
For the character of nonlinear and the time-varying in industrial boiler liquid level control process, which has been difficult to meet the requirements of control precision of nonlinear system based on the conventional PID cascade control, the paper puts forward the boiler liquid level control based on fuzzy neural network. It aims to put the self-learning ability of neural network into fuzzy control, which does not need to establish specific mathematical model to achieve the level control. Through the MATLAB design and simulation of the boiler liquid level system, the results are compared with the conventional PID control and fuzzy PID control, then it shows that the method is effective.
Purpose - This paper aims to find a new method that could be applied to the high and mid-grade prosthesis knee joint.
This paper deals with the analysis and design of the state estimator concerning BAM neural networks with time-varying delays of neutral type. Based on Lyapunov-Krasovskii theory and integral equality approach, the delay-dependent sufficient condition is obtained to ensure the closed-loop error system is globally asymptotically stable. Furthermore, the gain matrices of the estimator can be determined and the state estimator is designed completely. Finally, a numerical example is provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.
In this paper, an auto path generation method for arc welding robot is proposed by using a RGB-D sensor. From the generated 3D point cloud of the weld workpiece, the welding line is extracted and the path points of the robot are generated by an auto path generation algorithm. So the torch tip of the arc welding robot would walks along the welding line. This path generation module is added to current widely used ordinary arc welding robot while not changing it, used to assist people when teaching arc welding robots. This maybe eventually replace operator by automatically generate the path. The detail algorithm of the recognizing space curve welding lines and the auto path point generation method are emphasized in this paper. Experimental result shows the application feasibility of the proposed method.
Leading vehicle localization is the key part of intelligent driving system. This paper presents a novel and effective lane-vehicle detection and tracking system to achieve real-time and robust leading vehicle localization. The system is composed of (i) lane detection and tracking, (ii) sky and road region recognition, (iii) vehicle detection and tracking. First, lane detection and sky and road recognition are performed to reduce the possible region of leading vehicle. Then vehicle detection is applied to get all vehicles in per image. Combined with ROI information, leading vehicle is accurately localized. Finally, vehicle tracking is used to make the whole system more fast and robust. The core part of the whole system is vehicle detection. A novel and effective method based on convolutional neural networks is used to achieve high-quality and real-time vehicle detection. The experimental results validate the effectiveness and robustness of our algorithm. In addition, our system runs at real-time of 10 frames per second.
This paper deals with optimal tracking control problems for a class of discrete-time nonlinear systems using a generalized policy iteration adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm. First, by system transformation, the optimal tracking control problem is transformed into an optimal regulation problem. Then the generalized policy iteration ADP algorithm is employed to obtain the optimal tracking controller with convergence and optimality analysis. The developed algorithm uses the idea of two iteration procedures to obtain the iterative tracking control laws and the iterative value functions. Three neural networks, including model network, critic network and action network, are used to implement the developed algorithm. At last, an simulation example is given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the developed method.
In this paper, a novel robust nonlinear model is proposed to predict human lower extremity motion based on the multi-channel surface electromyography (sEMG) signals. The prediction model is established by a data-driven dynamic recurrent neural network. The sEMG signals acquired from human lower extremity muscles are used as the inputs of the prediction model. The outputs of the model are joint angles of hip, knee and ankle. Different from the traditional feedforward network structure, this model has several feedback loops, thus it can take advantage of the output feedback information. To validate the effectiveness of the proposed method, five able-bodied people participated in the cycling exercises and relevant data were recorded in real time. The performance of the proposed prediction model is compared to those of the feedforward neural network with augmented inputs (FFNNAI) for the motion prediction accuracy and robustness. The results show that the proposed method provides acceptable performance which is clearly better than the FFNNAI-based approach under different experimental schemes.
In this paper, a new data-based self-learning control scheme is developed to solve infinite horizon optimal control problems for continuous-time nonlinear systems. The developed optimal control scheme can be implement without knowing the mathematical model of the system. According to the input-output data of the nonlinear systems, a recurrent neural network (RNN) is employed to reconstruct the dynamics of the nonlinear system. According to the RNN model of the system, a new two-person zero-sum adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is developed to obtain the optimal control, where the reconstruction error and the system disturbance are considered the control input of the system. Single-layer neural networks are used to construct the critic and action networks, which are presented to approximate the performance index function and the control law, respectively. Finally, simulation results will show the effectiveness of the developed data-based ADP methods.
Cyber-physical systems (CPS) are integrations of computation and physical processes. For space environment, this paper proposes space-based cyber-physical systems (SCPS), which are intelligent systems that can satisfy the rising demand for space exploration. Compared with traditional satellite system, SCPS can be built with lower cost, shorter development cycle and can accomplish diverse tasks. In order to build SCPS, Sandroid architecture and Sandroid satellite are introduced. And the network construction of SCPS is described. Sandroid satellite is a kind of CubeSat uses Android as operating system and smartphone chips as control unit. In SCPS, Sandroid satellites collaborate with each other to accomplish complex task. So a new method for the collaboration among Sandroid satellites is presented.
Ensemble learning has been proved to improve the generalization ability effectively in both theory and practice. In this paper, we briefly outline the current status of research on it first. Then, a new deep neural network-based ensemble method that integrates filtering views, local views, distorted views, explicit training, implicit training, subview prediction, and Simple Average is proposed for biomedical time series classification. Finally, we validate its effectiveness on the Chinese Cardiovascular Disease Database containing a large number of electrocardiogram recordings. The experimental results show that the proposed method has certain advantages compared to some well-known ensemble methods, such as Bagging and AdaBoost.
Reliable streamflow forecasting is crucial for appropriate and effective water resource planning and management, especially in drought and flood prone regions. This study develops a hybrid wavelet-RBF neural network model (WRBF) for monthly streamflow prediction of Taoer River in western Jilin. The temporal variation of the Taoer River streamflow showed that about more than 80% of streamflow always concentrated in summer and autumn. The WRBF was established to forecast streamflow by using the sub-series decomposed from wavelet transformation as inputs to the RBFNN model. The comparison results between RBFNN and WRBF indicated that the WRBF model is superior to the RBFNN model especially for the peak values. It was found that the WRBF model with average RMSE=3.75 m(3)/s, MAPE=6.86 m3/s in test period is superior in forecasting monthly streamflow than RBFNN. This study would provide important scientific basis for management of flood water resources.
A lot of real-life mobile sensing applications are becoming available. These applications use mobile sensors embedded in smart phones to recognize human activities in order to get a better understanding of human behavior. In this paper, we propose a LSTM-based feature extraction approach to recognize human activities using tri-axial accelerometers data. The experimental results on the (WISDM) Lab public datasets indicate that our LSTM-based approach is practical and achieves 92.1% accuracy.
In this paper, distributed optimization problem is investigated for continuous-time multi-agent systems with external disturbance and discrete-time communication. A distributed optimization algorithm with an event-triggered strategy is designed, in order to reduce the communication cost. The proposed internal-model-based algorithm is proved to be effective and free of Zeno behavior with exponential convergence rate. Moreover, numerical simulation results also verify its effectiveness.
The mass sensing superiority of a micro/nanomechanical resonator sensor over conventional mass spectrometry has been, or at least, is being firmly established. Because the sensing mechanism of a mechanical resonator sensor is the shifts of resonant frequencies, how to link the shifts of resonant frequencies with the material properties of an analyte formulates an inverse problem. Besides the analyte/adsorbate mass, many other factors such as position and axial force can also cause the shifts of resonant frequencies. The in-situ measurement of the adsorbate position and axial force is extremely difficult if not impossible, especially when an adsorbate is as small as a molecule or an atom. Extra instruments are also required. In this study, an inverse problem of using three resonant frequencies to determine the mass, position and axial force is formulated and solved. The accuracy of the inverse problem solving method is demonstrated and how the method can be used in the real application of a nanomechanical resonator is also discussed. Solving the inverse problem is helpful to the development and application of mechanical resonator sensor on two things: reducing extra experimental equipments and achieving better mass sensing by considering more factors.
Reinforcement Learning (RL) has been proposed to deal with ramp control problems under dynamic traffic conditions; however, there is a lack of sufficient research on the behaviour and impacts of different learning parameters. This paper describes a ramp control agent based on the RL mechanism and thoroughly analyzed the influence of three learning parameters; namely, learning rate, discount rate and action selection parameter on the algorithm performance. Two indices for the learning speed and convergence stability were used to measure the algorithm performance, based on which a series of simulation-based experiments were designed and conducted by using a macroscopic traffic flow model. Simulation results showed that, compared with the discount rate, the learning rate and action selection parameter made more remarkable impacts on the algorithm performance. Based on the analysis, some suggestions about how to select suitable parameter values that can achieve a superior performance were provided.
Self-propelled motors have inspired enormous potential in accomplishing various tasks when navigating in an aqueous environment due to their virtues of requiring no external energy source and autonomous locomotion. However, without reliable controllability, their potential value would be heavily reduced. Here, we demonstrate an innovative millimeter-scale self-propelled motor steered by an external magnetic or electric field, which successfully enables the motor to avoid out-of-control motion behavior encountered previously. A nickel cap is electroplated on a liquid metal droplet. The on-board fuel aluminum foil not only triggers the autonomous movement, but also enhances the adhesion between the nickel cap and the droplet. The current motor, composed of a nickel cap, aluminum and liquid metal, is capable of running with a velocity of 3 cm s(-1) for hours without the use of an external energy source. In addition, the integration of the nickel cap renders a magnetic field exploitable to easily alter the performance of the motor remotely. Furthermore, an external electrical field offers a feasible way to accelerate the motor directionally in a reliable manner. More importantly, as a conceptual experiment, when loaded with soft alginate-based biomaterial containing aluminium nanoparticles as drugs, such a motor is still able to be self-propelled, exhibiting steerable motion for drug delivery. The remarkable features of the liquid metal motor, such as softness, controllable self-propelled movement and drug-delivery application, represent a critical step toward functional intelligent soft robots or machines.
In this paper, we have proposed a new algorithm to train neural network, called Class-Constrained Extreme Learning Machine ((CELM)-E-2), which is based on Extreme Learning Machine (ELM). In (CELM)-E-2, we use class information to constrain different parts of connection weights between input layer and hidden layer using Extreme Learning Machine Auto Encoder (ELM-AE). In this way, we add class information to the connection weights and make the features in the hidden layer which are learned from input space be more discriminative than other methods based on ELM. Meanwhile, (CELM)-E-2 can retain the advantages of ELM. The experiments shown that (CELM)-E-2 is effective and efficient and can achieve a higher performance in contrast to other ELM based methods.
The existing neural networks suffer from partial observation while modeling and controlling dynamic systems. In this paper, a new linearized recurrent neural network, the Taylor expanded echo state network (TESN), is proposed for predictive control of partially observed dynamic systems. Two schemes of regularization, ridge regression and sparse regression, are imposed on TESNs to tackle the issue of ill-conditioned estimation. Furthermore, two estimators, lasso and elastic net, are investigated for sparse regression. Regularized learning is found to improve the estimation consistency of readout coefficients and, at the same time, suppress the accumulation of linearization residues in a prediction horizon. A series of experiments was carried out, and the results verified that regularized learning is contributive to TESNs in predictive control of partially observed dynamic systems.
Residue depth is a solvent exposure measure that quantitatively describes the depth of a residue from the protein surface. It is an important parameter in protein structural biology. Residue depth can be used in protein ab initio folding, protein function annotation, and protein evolution simulation. Accordingly, accurate prediction of residue depth is an essential step towards the characterization of the protein function and development of novel protein structure prediction methods with optimized sensitivity and specificity. In this work, we propose an effective method termed as NNdepth for improved residue depth prediction. It uses sequence-derived features, including four types of sequence profiles, solvent accessibility, secondary structure and sequence length. Two sequence-to-depth neural networks were first constructed by incorporating various sources of information. Subsequently, a simple depth-to-depth equation was used to combine the two NN models and was shown to achieve an improved performance. We have designed and performed several experiments to systematically examine the performance of NNdepth. Our results demonstrate that NNdepth provides a more competitive performance when compared with our previous method evaluated using the Student t-test with a p-value < 0.001. Furthermore, we performed an in-depth analysis of the effect and importance of various features used by the models and also presented a case study to illustrate the utility and predictive power of NNdepth. To facilitate the wider research community, the NNdepth web server has been implemented and seamlessly incorporated as one of the components of our previously developed outer membrane prediction systems (available at http://genomics.fzu.edu.cn/OMP). In addition, a stand-alone software program is also publicly accessible and downloadable at the website. We envision that NNdepth should be a powerful tool for high-throughput structural genomics and protein functional annotations.
Mineral element contents, combined with multivariate analysis, were used for the identification and classification of foodborne pathogens from a common genus (Rhodococcus equi, Staphylococcus spp., Listeria spp., Salmonella spp., Shigella spp., Escherichia coli, Enterobacter sakazakii, Yersinia enterocolitica and Vibrio spp.). 45 macro- and trace mineral elements of 30 foodborne pathogens were determined by a semiquantitative inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (SQ-ICP-MS) technique. The elemental analysis identified 10 significant elements (Si-28, Ca-43, Fe-57, Ti-47, Cr-52, Mn-55, Zn-66, Sr-88, Ba-137 and Pb-208) by ANOVA in different types of pathogens. Principal component analysis (PCA) reduced the 10 variables to 6 principal components which could explain 98.40% of the total variance. The classification models constructed by the Fisher linear discriminant analysis (Fisher LDA) and back-propagation artificial neural network (BP-ANN) achieved correctly classified rates of 86.9% and 91.3%, respectively. The results indicated that the combination of multi-metal element composition determination and multivariate analysis can be used as fingerprint to quickly identify and classify foodborne pathogens.
Purpose - The purpose of this paper is to investigate an intelligent control for water hydraulic position servo system which is intent to be used in remote control robot for fusion reactor. The dynamic model of water hydraulic servo control system is built and proportional-integral-derivative (PID) controller is used.
Purpose - Humanoid robots should have the ability of walking in complex environment and overcoming large obstacles in rescue mission. Previous research mainly discusses the problem of humanoid robots stepping over or on/off one obstacle statically or dynamically. As an extreme case, this paper aims to demonstrate how the robots can step over two large obstacles continuously.
Purpose - Walking on inclined ground is an important ability for humanoid robots. In general, conventional strategies for walking on slopes lack technical analysis in, first, the waist posture with respect to actual robot and, second, the landing impact, which weakens the walking stability. The purpose of this paper is to propose a generic method for walking pattern generation considering these issues with the aim of enabling humanoid robot to walk dynamically on a slope.
Due to the non-linearity, randomness factors in the process of actual control, we always can't get the accurate mathematical model of controlled object and the disturbances from outside may also cause serious influence to the controlled system, in this case using the conventional PID controller often cannot get satisfactory control effect. To make up for the shortage of the conventional PID controller, and overcome the outside factors, ensure the normal operation of the system. This paper presents a fuzzy theory combine with PID control technology and gets a new control method, then analyses the characteristics of fuzzy control and conventional PID control, and build a closed loop control system model with DSP Builder, make simulation analysis and actual speed control experiment. Experimental results show that, compared with the conventional PID controller, fuzzy PID controller's major dynamic parameters are better, when targets' parameter and structure getting a great change, the system's ability to maintain the stability of motor speed control system is greatly enhanced. Compared with the conventional PID control, the proposed control algorithm in the aspect of dynamic characteristics and stability has a clear advantage.
Oil reserves are one of the core interests of a country. The detection of oil tanks is a very important task. So far, most studies only focus on the detection task itself. But the strategic value of different types of oil tanks is obviously different. So we furtherly divide oil tanks into two types: flat crest and cone-shaped crest. In this paper, a four-step method is adopted: (1) prepare dataset; (2) train the classifier; (3) extract candidate regions and (4) classification. The deep network (CNN) Krizhevsky used on cifar-10 dataset is used to train the classifier and ELSD is used to extract candidate regions. In addition, some clustering tricks are used to determine an only candidate region to solve the double-detection problem. The experimental results show that this method can detect and distinguish different types of oil tanks with outstanding performance.
Network traffic data is an important source of data to establish a network intrusion detection system (NIDS). The explosive growth of the network traffic data brings a huge challenge to network intrusion detection, and video traffic packet has been an important part of the network traffic. In recent years, more and more researches have been applied Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs), especially back-propagation (BP) neural network, to improve the performance of intrusion detection systems. However, in view of the current network intrusion detection methods, the detection precision, especially for low-frequent attacks, detection stability and training time are still needed to be enhanced. In this paper, a new model which based on BP neural network that is optimized by genetic algorithm and Dempster-Shafer (D-S) theory to solve the above problems and help NIDS to achieve higher detection rate, less false positive rate and stronger stability. The general process of our model is as follows: firstly dividing the main extracted feature into several different feature subsets. Then, based on different feature subsets, different ANN models are trained to build the detection engine. Finally, the D-S evidence theory is employed to integration these results, and obtain the final result. The effectiveness of this method is verified by experimental simulation utilizing KDD Cup1999 dataset.
Miniaturized-vehicles are witnessing an increasing demand in many areas such as lab-on-chip, flexible fabrication, micro fluidics and small object manipulation. Lots of effort has therefore been made to build a small-scale, controllable, robust and adaptable carrying vehicle. To explore an alternative way, an innovative vehicle driven by liquid metal droplet "wheels" is presented with a geometric size in the millimeter scale. Unlike former trials, this vehicle is a movable structure composed of soft wheels and a rigid body. Such a hybrid construction adapts to multiple electrolytes especially NaOH solution. Under variable conditions of electrical voltages and channels, the present vehicle can be controlled precisely to achieve progression, steering and more complex locomotion. With a boat-like core body, the vehicle can take burdens up to 0.4 gram at a speed of about 25 mm s(-1). More sophisticated vehicles with integrated manipulators and power supplies could still be built based on the current attempt. This kind of vehicle design realizes complex and accurate control as well as driving of a miniaturized robotic structure. The present finding may shed light on the construction of further complex miniaturized machines or robots in the future.
In this paper, distributed optimization problem for continuous-time multi-agent systems with external disturbance and discrete-time communication is considered. A distributed algorithm is developed to achieve the exact optimal solution by completely rejecting the disturbance. An upper bound for the discrete-time communication period is obtained to ensure the exponential convergence for this optimization problem. Finally, a numerical example is given to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.
In this review, we survey the latest advances in theoretical understanding of bimolecular reaction dynamics in the past decade. The remarkable recent progress in this field has been driven by more accurate and efficient ab initio electronic structure theory, effective potential-energy surface fitting techniques, and novel quantum scattering algorithms. Quantum mechanical characterization of bimolecular reactions continues to uncover interesting dynamical phenomena in atom-diatom reactions and beyond, reaching an unprecedented level of sophistication. In tandem with experimental explorations, these theoretical developments have greatly advanced our understanding of key issues in reaction dynamics, such as microscopic reaction mechanisms, mode specificity, product energy disposal, influence of reactive resonances, and nonadiabatic effects.
We address the problem of stochastic attractor and boundedness of a class of switched Cohen-Grossberg neural networks (CGNN) with discrete and infinitely distributed delays. With the help of stochastic analysis technology, the Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional method, linear matrix inequalities technique (LMI), and the average dwell time approach (ADT), some novel sufficient conditions regarding the issues of mean-square uniformly ultimate boundedness, the existence of a stochastic attractor, and the mean-square exponential stability for the switched Cohen-Grossberg neural networks are established. Finally, illustrative examples and their simulations are provided to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed results.
In this paper, we concentrate on investigating bipartite output consensus in networked multi-agent systems of high-order power integrators. Systems with power integrator are ubiquitous among weakly coupled, unstable and underactuated mechanical systems. In the presence of input noises, an adaptive disturbance compensator and a technique of adding power integrator are introduced to the complex nonlinear multi-agent systems to reduce the deterioration of system performance. Additionally, due to the existence of negative communication weights among agents, whether bipartite output consensus of high-order power integrators can be achieved remains unknown. Therefore, it is of great importance to study this issue. The underlying idea of designing the distributed controller is to combine the output information of each agent itself and its neighbours, the state feedback within its internal system and input adaptive noise compensator all together. When the signed digraph is structurally balanced, bipartite output consensus can be reached. Finally, numerical simulations are provided to verify the validity of the developed criteria.
In this paper, the consensus problem for leader-following linear multi-agent systems with external disturbances is investigated. Brownian motions are used to describe exogenous disturbances. A distributed tracking controller based on Riccati inequalities with an adaptive law for adjusting coupling weights between neighbouring agents is designed for leader-following multi-agent systems under fixed and switching topologies. In traditional distributed static controllers, the coupling weights depend on the communication graph. However, coupling weights associated with the feedback gain matrix in our method are updated by state errors between neighbouring agents. We further present the stability analysis of leader-following multi-agent systems with stochastic disturbances under switching topology. Most traditional literature requires the graph to be connected all the time, while the communication graph is only assumed to be jointly connected in this paper. The design technique is based on Riccati inequalities and algebraic graph theory. Finally, simulations are given to show the validity of our method.
A computational model combining a finite element method (FEM) with an artificial neural network (ANN) was developed to predict the rolling force in the hot rolling of Mg alloy plates. FEM results were compared with experimental data to verify the accuracy of the finite element model. Numerous thermomechanical finite element simulations were carried out to obtain a database for training and validation of the network. The input variables were initial thickness, thickness reduction, initial temperature of the plate, friction coefficient in the contact area, and rolling speed. The optimal ANN model was obtained after repeated training and studying of the samples. The trained network gave satisfactory results when comparing the ANN predictions and FEM simulation results. A comprehensive validation of the prediction model is presented. The resulting ANN model was found to be suitable for online control and rolling schedule optimization in the hot rolling process of Mg alloy plate.
This paper proposes a method of acoustic modeling for zero-resourced languages speech recognition under mismatch conditions. In those languages, very limited or no transcribed speech is available for traditional monolingual speech recognition. Conventional methods such as IPA based universal acoustic modeling has been proved to be effective under matched acoustic conditions (similar speaking styles, adjacent languages, etc.), while usually poorly preformed when mismatch occurs. Since mismatch problems between languages often appears, in this paper, unsupervised acoustic modeling via cross-lingual knowledge sharing has thus been proposed: first, initial acoustic models (AM) for a target zero-resourced language are trained using Multi-Task Deep Neural Networks (MDNN)-different languages' speech mapped to the phonemes of the target language (mapped data) is jointly trained together with the same data transcribed language specifically and respectively (specific data); then, automatically transcribed target language data is used in the iterative process to train new AMs, with various auxiliary tasks. Experiment on 100 hour Japanese speech without transcripts achieved a character error rate (CER) of 57.21%, 19.32% absolute improvement compared to baseline (IPA based universal acoustic modeling).
Purpose - This paper aims to study that for multi-agent systems, how to find proper control protocols to ensure synchronization when the input set of each agent is not the whole real axis but a discrete set, and how the coarseness of imprecise input sets affect the synchronization control of the multi-agent systems.
Purpose - Human movement system is a Multi-DOF, redundant, complex and nonlinear system formed by coordinating combination of neural system, bones, muscles and joints, which is robust and has fast response and learning ability. Imitating human movement system can improve robustness, fast response and learning ability of the robots.
Sensors health monitoring is essentially important for reliable functioning of safety-critical chemical and nuclear power plants. Autoassociative neural network (AANN) based empirical sensor models have widely been reported for sensor calibration monitoring. However, such ill-posed data driven models may result in poor generalization and robustness. To address above-mentioned issues, several regularization heuristics such as training with jitter, weight decay, and cross-validation are suggested in literature. Apart from these regularization heuristics, traditional error gradient based supervised learning algorithms for multilayered AANN models are highly susceptible of being trapped in local optimum. In order to address poor regularization and robust learning issues, here, we propose a denoised autoassociative sensor model (DAASM) based on deep learning framework. Proposed DAASM model comprises multiple hidden layers which are pretrained greedily in an unsupervised fashion under denoising autoencoder architecture. In order to improve robustness, dropout heuristic and domain specific data corruption processes are exercised during unsupervised pretraining phase. The proposed sensor model is trained and tested on sensor data from a PWR type nuclear power plant. Accuracy, autosensitivity, spillover, and sequential probability ratio test (SPRT) based fault detectability metrics are used for performance assessment and comparison with extensively reported five-layer AANN model by Kramer.
For the control of the liquid level of liquid ammonia in thermal power plant's ammonia vaporization room, traditional PID controller parameter tuning is difficult to adapt to complex control systems, the setting of the traditional PID controller parameters is difficult to adapt to the complex control system. For the disadvantage of bad parameter setting, poor performance and so on, the fuzzy adaptive PID control is proposed. Fuzzy adaptive PID control combines the advantages of traditional PID technology and fuzzy control. By using the fuzzy controller to intelligent control the object, the performance of the PID controller is further improved, and the control precision of the system is improved[1]. The simulation results show that the fuzzy adaptive PID controller not only has the advantages of high accuracy of PID controller, but also has the characteristics of fast and strong adaptability of fuzzy controller. It realizes the optimization of PID parameters which are in the optimal state, and the maximum increase production efficiency, so that are more suitable for nonlinear dynamic system.
Fusion of synthetic aperture radar (SAR) and multispectral (MS) images can contribute to a better visual perception of the objects observed. Unfortunately, many classical approaches have been proven to be unsuitable for this task due to their intrinsic differences in imaging mechanism. In the non-subsampled contourlet transform domain, an alternative fusion method based on pulse coupled neural networks is proposed. To control the amount of SAR features to be integrated into MS image, a gradient-threshold combined modulation is designed for modulating the SAR sub-band coefficients. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed method outperforms its counterparts in spectral preservation and feature enhancement.
In this paper, a local and parallel algorithm based on the multilevel disc retization is proposed for solving the eigenvalue problem by the finite element method. With this new scheme, the eigenvalue problem solving in the finest grid is transferred to solutions of the eigenvalue problems on the coarsest mesh and a series of solutions of boundary value problems on each level mesh. Therefore this type of multilevel local and parallel method improves the overall efficiency of solving the eigenvalue problem. Some numericalexperiments are presented to validate the efficiency of the new method.
Docking is an essential yet challenging problem to the deployment of marsupial robotic system involving a mother robot and several child robots, as the technologies such as rail-line tracking and global vision measurement are not suitable for applications in unknown environments. This chapter presents a coordinated docking approach based on embedded vision of the child robot collaborated by the mother robot with an innovative lifting docking station. The child robot utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) camera to capture and extract image features related to a benchmark attached on the docking station, and the internal correlation between its heading direction and the entry direction of docking station is then derived, which makes the docking process be concise and convenient. On this basis, a coordinated docking task model is built and the transition conditions among task states are presented. The precision analysis of the docking is also discussed. The experimental results prove the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
This paper describes a real-time motion planner based on the drivers' visual behavior-guided rapidly exploring random tree (RRT) approach, which is applicable to on-road driving of autonomous vehicles. The primary novelty is in the use of the guidance of drivers' visual search behavior in the framework of RRT motion planner. RRT is an incremental sampling-based method that is widely used to solve the robotic motion planning problems. However, RRT is often unreliable in a number of practical applications such as autonomous vehicles used for on-road driving because of the unnatural trajectory, useless sampling, and slow exploration. To address these problems, we present an interesting RRT algorithm that introduces an effective guided sampling strategy based on the drivers' visual search behavior on road and a continuous-curvature smooth method based on B-spline. The proposed algorithm is implemented on a real autonomous vehicle and verified against several different traffic scenarios. A large number of the experimental results demonstrate that our algorithm is feasible and efficient for on-road autonomous driving. Furthermore, the comparative test and statistical analyses illustrate that its excellent performance is superior to other previous algorithms.
With the growing popularity of cell phones, using massive cellular signaling data as probe to track the vehicles movement trajectory and obtain the real-time traffic condition has become one of the most attractive candidate techniques. However, traditional approaches may offer a poor performance in removing noisy data and minimizing deviation of traffic speed in adjacent time intervals. In this paper, a novel approach is proposed to solve these two issues. The authors move noisy data by comparing the cellular signaling data with the trained data set, and adopt a modified Kalman filter algorithm to minimize the deviations. The experiment results show that the accuracy of the approach performs better in comparison to other two traffic speed estimation approaches.
In this paper, for nonlinear multi-agent systems under switching topologies with communication failure, the leader-following consensus problem is studied. Firstly, several switching topologies including a null graph are considered. Secondly, the novel consensus protocols for followers are given considering the communication failure (null graph). Then the convergence analysis is presented and some sufficient conditions are derived for the consensus tracking in a leader-followers multi-agent network. The analysis tools developed in this paper are based on matrix theory and control theory. Finally, the simulations show that by the proposed theorem, the consensus can be achieved and the control gain can influence the speed of the consensus.
Characterizing the errors in satellite-based precipitation estimation products is crucial for understanding their effects in hydrological applications. Six precipitation products derived from three algorithms are comprehensively evaluated against gauge data over mainland China from December 2006 to November 2010. These products include three satellite-only estimates: the Global Satellite Mapping of Precipitation Microwave-IR Combined Product (GSMaP_MVK), the Climate Prediction Center (CPC) MORPHing (CMORPH), and Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information using Artificial Neural Networks (PERSIANN), as well as their gauge-corrected counterparts: the GSMaP Gauge-calibrated Product (GSMaP_Gauge), bias-corrected CMORPH (CMORPH_CRT), and PERSIANN Climate Data Record (PERSIANN-CDR). Overall, the bias-correction procedures largely reduce various errors for the three groups of satellite-based precipitation products. GSMaP_Gauge produces better fractional coverage with the highest correlation (0.95) and the lowest RMSE (0.53 mm/day) but also high RB (15.77%). In general, CMORPH_CRT amounts are closer to the gauge reference. CMORPH shows better performance than GSMaP_MVK and PERSIANN with the highest CC (0.82) and the lowest RMSE (0.93 mm/day), but also presents a relatively high RB (-19.60%). In winter, all six satellite precipitation estimates have comparatively poor capability, with the IR-based PERSIANN_CDR exhibiting the closest performance to the gauge reference. Both satellite-only and gauge-corrected satellite products show poor capability in detecting occurrence of precipitation with a low POD (<50%) and CSI (<35%) and a high FAR (>40%).
Accurate monitoring of grassland biomass at high spatial and temporal resolutions is important for the effective utilization of grasslands in ecological and agricultural applications. However, current remote sensing data cannot simultaneously provide accurate monitoring of vegetation changes with fine temporal and spatial resolutions. We used a data-fusion approach, namely the spatial and temporal adaptive reflectance fusion model (STARFM), to generate synthetic normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) data from Moderate-Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) and Landsat data sets. This provided observations at fine temporal (8-d) and medium spatial (30 m) resolutions. Based on field-sampled aboveground biomass (AGB), synthetic NDVI and support vector machine (SVM) techniques were integrated to develop an AGB estimation model (SVM-AGB) for Xilinhot in Inner Mongolia, China. Compared with model generated from MODIS-NDVI (R-2 = 0.73, root-mean-square error (RMSE) = 30.61 g/m(2)), the SVM-AGB model we developed can not only ensure the accuracy of estimation (R-2 = 0.77, RMSE = 17.22 g/m(2)), but also produce higher spatial (30 m) and temporal resolution (8-d) biomass maps. We then generated the time-series biomass to detect biomass anomalies for grassland regions. We found that the synthetic NDVI-derived estimations contained more details on the distribution and severity of vegetation anomalies compared with MODIS NDVI-derived AGB estimations. This is the first time that we have generated time series of grassland biomass with 30-m and 8-d intervals data through combined use of a data-fusion method and the SVM-AGB model. Our study will be useful for near real-time and accurate (improved resolutions) monitoring of grassland conditions, and the data have implications for arid and semi-arid grasslands management.
This paper adopts a novel methodology to predict China's grain production. Using a grey model to capture the main trend, this paper establishes a modified model of BP neural networks and then analyzes the irregular events and its influencing direction and degree with Delphi methods. By testing the validity of the final model, the result shows an encouraging conclusion that the model is effective and China's grain production will continue to increase in the next six years.
Collision sensing including collision position, collision direction, and force size could make robots smoothly interact with environment, so that the robots can strongly adapt to the outside world. Skin sensor imitates principles of human skin using special material and physical structure to obtain collision information, but this method has some disadvantages, such as complex design, low sampling rate, and poor generality. In this paper, a new method using force/torque sensor to calculate collision position, collision direction, and force size is proposed. Detailed algorithm is elaborated based on physical principle and unified modeling method for basic geometric surface. Gravity compensation and dynamic compensation are also introduced for working manipulators/robots in gravity and dynamic environment. In addition, considering algorithm solvability and uniqueness, four constraints are proposed, which are force constraint, geometric constraint, normal vector constraint, and current mutation constraint. In order to solve conflict solution of algorithm in redundant constraints, compatibility solution analysis is proposed. Finally, a simulation experiment shows that the proposed method can achieve collision information efficiently and accurately.
Two-dimensional (2D) molybdenum disulfide (MoS2) is an exciting material due to its unique electrical, optical, and piezoelectric properties. Owing to an intrinsic band gap of 1.2-1.9 eV, monolayer or a-few layer MoS2 is used for fabricating field effect transistors (FETs) with high electron mobility and on/off ratio. However, the traditional FETs are controlled by an externally supplied gate voltage, which may not be sensitive enough to directly interface with a mechanical stimulus for applications in electronic skin. Here we report a type of top-pressure/force-gated field effect transistors (PGFETs) based on a hybrid structure of a 2D MoS2 flake and 1D ZnO nanowire (NW) array. Once an external pressure is applied, the piezoelectric polarization charges created at the tips of ZnO NWs grown on MoS2 act as a gate voltage to tune/control the source-drain transport property in MoS2. At a 6.25 MPa applied stimulus on a packaged device, the source drain current can be tuned for similar to 25%, equivalent to the results of applying an extra-5 V back gate voltage. Another type of PGFET with a dielectric layer (Al2O3) sandwiched between MoS2 and ZnO also shows consistent results. A theoretical model is proposed to interpret the received data. This study sets the foundation for applying the 2D material-based FETs in the field of artificial intelligence.
A new three-dimensional potential energy surface (PES) of the Ne-N-2 van der Waals complex was constructed using the neural networks method based on ab initio data points at the CCSD(T) level. The augcc-pVQZ basis set was employed for all atoms, supplemented by midbond functions. The vibrationally averaged PES V-00 is characterized by a global T-shaped minimum which occurs at R = 3.385 angstrom, 0 = 90.0 degrees with a well depth of -49.202 cm(-1). Based on our three-dimensional PES, bound state calculations were performed for four isotopologues, i.e. Ne-20-N-14(2), Ne-22-N-14(2), Ne-20-N-15(2), Ne-22-N-15(2), and several intermolecular vibrational states were assigned by analyzing the wavefunctions. Moreover, the averaged structural parameters were determined and the pure rotational transition frequencies with J = 0-5 are predicted. The spectroscopic constants were determined by fitting the rotational energy levels. The theoretical results are in good agreement with experimental data and this work gives more accurate results than those determined previously for the Ne-N-2 complex. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
This paper studies the problem of global robust distributed output consensus of heterogeneous leader-follower multi-agent nonlinear systems by general directed output interactions. For a class of minimum-phase single-input single-output nonlinear agents having unity relative degree, it is shown that the problem is solvable by an internal model approach under certain mild conditions. A Lyapunov function based output-feedback control law is developed by converting the global output consensus into a global distributed stabilization problem for an augmented network. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this review, we explore the physical mechanisms of biological processes such as protein folding and recognition, ligand binding, and systems biology, including cell cycle, stem cell, cancer, evolution, ecology, and neural networks. Our approach is based on the landscape and flux theory for nonequilibrium dynamical systems. This theory provides a unifying principle and foundation for investigating the underlying mechanisms and physical quantification of biological systems.
Online monitoring systems provided a significant evidence for feasibility of the stepwise behavioral response model in detecting the effects of organophosphorus pesticides on movements of medaka (Oryzias latipes), being able to determine the state of indicator organisms, "no effect," "stimulation," "acclimation," "adjustment (readjustment)," and "toxic effect." Though the stepwise behavioral response model postulated that an organism displays a time-dependent sequence of compensatory stepwise behavioral response during exposure to pollutants above their respective thresholds of resistance, it was still a conceptual model based on tendency only in analysis. In this study, the phenomenon of bacterial persistence was used to interpret the relationship between the stepwise behavioral response model and the environmental stress caused by both exposure time and different treatments. Quantitative measurements of the stepwise behavioral response model led to a simple mathematical description of the threshold switch, which evaluated the effects of environmental stress on behavioral responses to decide the tendency. The adjustment ability correlated to "persisters (p)" is very important for test individuals to overcome the "threshold" from the outside environmental stress. The computational modeling results suggested that "persister (p)," as described in the general equations of bacterial persistence model in changing environments, illustrated behavior acclimation and adjustment (or readjustment) clearly. Consequently, the persistence parameter, p, was critical in addressing for medaka to be adapted to fluctuating environments under different environmental stress.
Multi-agent systems (MASs) are ubiquitous in natural and artificial systems. This paper aims to establish the finite-time adaptive consensus criterion for a class of MASs with nonlinear dynamics. Traditionally, the finite-time consensus criterion is often established based on the prior information on Lipschitz constants and the eigenvalues of Laplacian matrix. However, it is difficult to acquire the above prior information for most real-world engineering systems. To overcome the above difficulty, this paper develops the finite-time consensus criteria for a class of MASs with nonlinear dynamics via adaptive technique. In detail, we design the finite-time distributed node-based and edge-based adaptive consensus protocols for a class of MASs with fixed and switching topologies. Numerical simulations are also given to validate the proposed finite-time adaptive consensus criterion.
This paper addresses the leader-following consensus problem of linear multi-agent systems (MASs) with communication noise. Each agent's dynamical behavior is described by a linear multi-input and multi-output (MIMO) system, and the agent's full state is assumed to be unavailable. To deal with this challenge, a state observer is constructed to estimate the agent's full state. A dynamic output-feedback based protocol that is based on the estimated state is proposed. To mitigate the effect of communication noise, noise-attenuation gains are also introduced into the proposed protocol. In this study, each agent is allowed to have its own noise-attenuation gain. It is shown that the proposed protocol can solve the mean square leader-following consensus problem of a linear MIMO MAS. Moreover, if all noise-attenuation gains are of I similar to(t (-beta) ), where beta a(0,1), the convergence rate of the MAS can be quantitatively analyzed. It turns out that all followers' states converge to the leader's state in the mean square sense at a rate of O(t (-beta) ).
Fast learning network (FLN) is a novel double parallel forward neural network, which proves to be a very good machine learning tool. However, some randomly initialed weights and biases may be non-optimal performance parameters. Therefore, for the problem, this paper proposes a double linear fast learning network (DLFLN), in which all weights and biases are divided into two parts and each part is determined by least squared method. DLFLN is employed to model the combustion characteristics of a 330 MW coal-fired boiler and is combined with an optimization algorithm to tune the operating parameters of the boiler to achieve the combustion optimization objective. Experimental results show that, compared with extreme learning machine and FLN, although the DLFLN is assigned much less hidden neural nodes, the DLFLN could achieve much better generalization performance and stability under various operational conditions; in addition, the effect of the combustion optimization is very satisfactory.
The order and chaos of the motion near equilibrium points in the potential of a rotating highly irregular-shaped celestial body are investigated from point of view of the dynamical system theory. The positions of the non-degenerate equilibrium points vary continuously when the parameter changes. The topological structures in the vicinity of equilibrium points are classified into several different cases. Bifurcations at equilibrium points and the topological transfers between different cases for equilibrium points are also discussed. The conclusions can be applied to all kinds of rotating celestial bodies, simple-shaped or highly irregular-shaped, including asteroids, comets, planets, and satellites of planets to help one to understand the dynamical behaviors around them. Applications to asteroids 216 Kleopatra, 2063 Bacchus, and 25143 Itokawa are significant and interesting: Eigenvalues affiliated to the equilibrium points for the asteroid 216 Kleopatra move and always belong to the same topological cases, while eigenvalues affiliated to two different equilibrium points for the asteroid 2063 Bacchus and 25143 Itokawa move through the resonant cases of equilibrium points, and the collision of eigenvalues in the complex plane occurs. Poincar, sections in the potential of the asteroid 216 Kleopatra show the chaos behaviors of the orbits in large scale.
In this paper, we develop a novel data-driven multivariate nonlinear controller design method for multi-input-multi-output (MIMO) nonlinear systems via virtual reference feedback tuning (VRFT) and neural networks. To the best of authors' knowledge, it is the first time to introduce VRFT to MIMO nonlinear systems in theory. Unlike the standard VRFT for linear systems, we restate the model reference control problem with time-domain model in the absence of transfer functions and simplify the objective function of VRFF without a linear filter. Then, we prove that the objective function of VRFT reaches the minimum at the same point as the optimization problem of model reference control and give the relationship between the bounds of the two optimization problems of model reference control and VRFT. A three-layer neural network is used to implement the developed method. Finally, two simulations are conducted to verify the validity of our method. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Most of semi-supervised learning algorithms based on manifold regularization framework are surface learning algorithms, such as semi-supervised ELM (SS-ELM) and Laplacian smooth twin support vector machine (Lap-STSVM). Multi-layer extreme learning machine (ML-ELM) stacks extreme learning machine based auto encoder (ELM-AE) to create a multi-layer neural network. ML-ELM not only approximates the complicated function but also achieves fast training time. The outputs of ELM-AE are the same as inputs, which cannot guarantee the effectiveness of the learning feature representations. We put forward extreme learning machine based denoising auto encoder (ELM-DAE) which introduces local denoising criterion into ELM-AE and is used as the basic component for Denoising ML-ELM. Resembling ML-ELM, Denoising ML-ELM stacks ELM-DAE to create a deep network. And then we introduce manifold regularization into the model of Denoising ML-ELM and propose denoising Laplacian ML-ELM (Denoising Lap-ML-ELM). Denoising Lap-ML-ELM is more efficient than SS-ELM in classification and does not need to spend too much time. Experimental results show that Denoising ML-ELM and Denoising Lap-ML-ELM are effective learning algorithms. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The shift of resonant frequency is the sensing mechanism for a mechanical resonator. The adsorbate mass, position and induced force are the three dominant things responsible for the resonant frequency shifts of a string resonator. In the application of a resonator sensor, the (shifts of) resonant frequencies are the measured quantities and therefore, an inverse problem arises naturally: How to determine the adsorbate mass, position and induced farce by the resonant frequencies? An inverse problem solving method on the string resonator with one adsorbate is presented and its accuracy is demonstrated. How the method can be used in a real string sensor application scenario is also discussed. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Individual differences in mind and behavior are believed to reflect the functional variability of the human brain. Due to the lack of a large-scale longitudinal dataset, the full landscape of variability within and between individual functional connectomes is largely unknown. We collected 300 resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rfMRI) datasets from 30 healthy participants who were scanned every three days for one month. With these data, both intra-and inter-individual variability of six common rfMRI metrics, as well as their test-retest reliability, were estimated across multiple spatial scales. Global metrics were more dynamic than local regional metrics. Cognitive components involving working memory, inhibition, attention, language and related neural networks exhibited high intra-individual variability. In contrast, inter-individual variability demonstrated a more complex picture across the multiple scales of metrics. Limbic, default, frontoparietal and visual networks and their related cognitive components were more differentiable than somatomotor and attention networks across the participants. Analyzing both intra-and inter-individual variability revealed a set of high-resolution maps on test-retest reliability of the multi-scale connectomic metrics. These findings represent the first collection of individual differences in multi-scale and multimetric characterization of the human functional connectomes in-vivo, serving as normal references for the field to guide the use of common functional metrics in rfMRI-based applications.
In the past four decades (1970-2013), nitrogen and phosphorous inputs to the Changjiang River basin, mainly from human activities, have increased 3-fold and 306-fold, respectively. The riverine nutrient fluxes to the estuary have also grown exponentially. Dissolved inorganic nitrogen (DIN) and dissolved inorganic phosphorous (DIP) fluxes of the Changjiang River increased by 338% and 574% during 1970 -2013 period, and red tides and benthic hypoxia have been observed in the outflow region of the Changjiang River in the East China Sea (ECS). We assumed that time series changes in the DIN:DIP ratio from the Changjiang River could have a significant impact on Chlorophyll-alpha (Chl-alpha) concentration in the surface sea water and dissolved oxygen (DO) concentration in the bottom sea water of the Changjiang estuary. Our study showed that the DIN:DIP ratio from the Changjiang River increased from 76 to 384 between 1970 and 1985, and decreased from 255 to 149 between 1986 and 2013. The observed Chl-alpha concentration increased by 146% from 1992 to 2010 in the Changjiang estuary, and was negatively related to the DIN:DIP ratio in 1992-2010. Bottom sea water DO concentration decreased by 24.6% during 1992 -2010 and a "low oxygen zone" (122 degrees similar to 123 degrees E, 32 degrees similar to 33 degrees N) was observed during summer since 1999. The anthropogenically enhanced nutrient inputs dominated river DIN and DIP fluxes and influenced Chl-a concentrations as well as bottom DO concentrations in the estuary. Scenarios emphasizing global collaboration and proactive environmental problem-solving may result in reductions in the river nutrient exports and in Chl-alpha and DO concentration in the Changjiang estuary by 2050. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Powering and communication with micro robots to enable complex functions is a long-standing challenge as the size of robots continues to shrink. Physical connection of wires or components needed for wireless communication are complex and limited by the size of electronic and energy storage devices, making miniaturization of robots difficult. To explore an alternative solution, we designed and fabricated a micro soft swimming robot with both powering and controlling functions provided by remote light, which does not carry any electronic devices and batteries. In this approach, a polymer film containing azobenzene chromophore which is sensitive to ultra-violet (UV) light works as "motor", and the UV light and visible light work as "power and signal lines". Periodically flashing UV light and white light drives the robot flagellum periodically to swing to eventually push forward the robot in the glass tube filled with liquid. The gripper on robot head can be opened or closed by lights to grab and carry the load. This kind of remotely light-driven approach realizes complex driving and controlling of micro robotic structures, making it possible to design and fabricate even smaller robots. It will have great potential among applications in the micro machine and robot fields.
Wearable sensors are increasingly finding their way into applications of kinesthetic sensing, personal health monitoring, and smart prosthetics/robotics. A graphene-based composite fiber sensor with a "compression spring" structure is fabricated, featuring the ability of detecting multiple kinds of deformation. This fiber sensor is integrated into wearable sensors for monitoring human activities and intricate movements of robotics successfully.
To overcome the difficulties associated with the frequently varying operating conditions of the laminar cooling process and measuring the strip temperature in the cooling process online, a soft sensor model of the hot-rolled strip is proposed which combines mathematical and hybrid intelligent methods. The proposed approach is based on computational intelligence techniques, where RBF neural networks, CBR and fuzzy logic reasoning are employed to estimate process parameters for predicting the coiling temperature of the strips. A number of simulation tests using industrial data are conducted where the desired numerical results are obtained. It has been shown that the proposed soft sensor has a high potential for being used to effectively measure the strip temperature in the laminar cooling process. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A multi-energy soft x-ray (ME-SXR) diagnostic has been built for electron temperature profile in the edge plasma region in Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak (EAST) after two rounds of campaigns. Originally, five preamplifiers were mounted inside the EAST vacuum vessel chamber attached to five vertically stacked compact diode arrays. A custom mechanical structure was designed to protect the detectors and electronics under constraints of the tangential field of view for plasma edge and the allocation of space. In the next experiment, the mechanical structure was redesigned with a barrel structure to absolutely isolate it from the vacuum vessel. Multiple shielding structures were mounted at the pinhole head to protect the metal foils from lithium coating. The pre-amplifiers were moved to the outside of the vacuum chamber to avoid introducing interference. Twisted copper cooling tube was embedded into the back-shell near the diode to limit the temperature of the preamplifiers and diode arrays during vacuum vessel baking when the temperature reached 150 degrees C. Electron temperature profiles were reconstructed from ME-SXR measurements using neural networks. (C) 2015 AIP Publishing LLC.
Scan imaging systems rely on the rotation of a mirror to scan an image. The rotation in the resulting image must be compensated to prevent information loss. Satisfactory performance of an imaging system is difficult to achieve when employing the methods of mechanical transmission and unilateral tracking control, especially when the system suffers from nonlinear factors, disturbances, and dynamic uncertainties. This paper proposes a compensation method based on bilateral control derived from the field of haptic robots. A two-loop disturbance observer was designed to guarantee that the dynamic characteristics of the motor are close to those of the nominal model. The controllers were designed on the basis of the small gain theorem. Experiments were conducted for a comparison with the traditional unilateral control-based compensation. The comparison showed a reduction of 99.83% in the L-2 norm of error, which validates the method. The proposed method improves the accuracy of compensation for rotation in imaging, and demonstrates that bilateral control has feasibility for application in various fields, including photogrammetry. (C) 2015 Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE)
In this paper, a novel iterative Q-learning algorithm, called "policy iteration based deterministic Q-learning algorithm", is developed to solve the optimal control problems for discrete-time deterministic nonlinear systems. The idea is to use an iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) technique to construct the iterative control law which optimizes the iterative Q function. When the optimal Q function is obtained, the optimal control law can be achieved by directly minimizing the optimal Q function, where the mathematical model of the system is not necessary. Convergence property is analyzed to show that the iterative Q function is monotonically non-increasing and converges to the solution of the optimality equation. It is also proven that any of the iterative control laws is a stable control law. Neural networks are employed to implement the policy iteration based deterministic Q-learning algorithm, by approximating the iterative Q function and the iterative control law, respectively. Finally, two simulation examples are presented to illustrate the performance of the developed algorithm.
The brain often has to make decisions based on information stored in working memory, but the neural circuitry underlying working memory is not fully understood. Many theoretical efforts have been focused on modeling the persistent delay period activity in the prefrontal areas that is believed to represent working memory. Recent experiments reveal that the delay period activity in the prefrontal cortex is neither static nor homogeneous as previously assumed. Models based on reservoir networks have been proposed to model such a dynamical activity pattern. The connections between neurons within a reservoir are random and do not require explicit tuning. Information storage does not depend on the stable states of the network. However, it is not clear how the encoded information can be retrieved for decision making with a biologically realistic algorithm. We therefore built a reservoir-based neural network to model the neuronal responses of the prefrontal cortex in a somatosensory delayed discrimination task. We first illustrate that the neurons in the reservoir exhibit a heterogeneous and dynamical delay period activity observed in previous experiments. Then we show that a cluster population circuit decodes the information from the reservoir with a winner-take-all mechanism and contributes to the decision making. Finally, we show that the model achieves a good performance rapidly by shaping only the readout with reinforcement learning. Our model reproduces important features of previous behavior and neurophysiology data. We illustrate for the first time how task-specific information stored in a reservoir network can be retrieved with a biologically plausible reinforcement learning training scheme.
For many applications such as tele-operational robots and interactions with virtual environments, it is better to have performance with force feedback than without. Haptic devices are force reflecting interfaces. They can also track human hand positions simultaneously. A new 6 DOF (degree-of-freedom) haptic device was designed and calibrated in this study. It mainly contains a double parallel linkage, a rhombus linkage, a rotating mechanical structure and a grasping interface. Benefited from the unique design, it is a hybrid structure device with a large workspace and high output capability. Therefore, it is capable of multi-finger interactions. Moreover, with an adjustable base, operators can change different postures without interrupting haptic tasks. To investigate the performance regarding position tracking accuracy and static output forces, we conducted experiments on a three-dimensional electric sliding platform and a digital force gauge, respectively. Displacement errors and force errors are calculated and analyzed. To identify the capability and potential of the device, four application examples were programmed.
This paper is concerned with a novel generalized policy iteration algorithm for solving optimal control problems for discrete-time nonlinear systems. The idea is to use an iterative adaptive dynamic programming algorithm to obtain iterative control laws which make the iterative value functions converge to the optimum. Initialized by an admissible control law, it is shown that the iterative value functions are monotonically nonincreasing and converge to the optimal solution of Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation, under the assumption that a perfect function approximation is employed. The admissibility property is analyzed, which shows that any of the iterative control laws can stabilize the nonlinear system. Neural networks are utilized to implement the generalized policy iteration algorithm, by approximating the iterative value function and computing the iterative control law, respectively, to achieve approximate optimal control. Finally, numerical examples are presented to verify the effectiveness of the present generalized policy iteration algorithm.
In this paper, a distributed output regulation problem is formulated for a class of uncertain nonlinear multi-agent systems subject to local disturbances. The formulation is given to study a leader-following problem when the leader contains unknown inputs and its dynamics is different from those of the followers. Based on the conventional output regulation assumptions and graph theory, distributed feedback controllers are constructed to make the agents globally or semi-globally follow the uncertain leader even when the bound of the leader's inputs is unknown to the followers. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Approximate policy iteration (API) is studied to solve undiscounted optimal control problems in this paper. A discrete-time system with the continuous-state space and the finite-action set is considered. As approximation technique is used for the continuous-state space, approximation errors exist in the calculation and disturb the convergence of the original policy iteration. In our research, we analyze and prove the convergence of API for undiscounted optimal control. We use an iterative method to implement approximate policy evaluation and demonstrate that the error between approximate and exact value functions is bounded. Then, with the finite-action set, the greedy policy in policy improvement is generated directly. Our main theorem proves that if a sufficiently accurate approximator is used, API converges to the optimal policy. For implementation, we introduce a fuzzy approximator and verify the performance on the puddle world problem.
Data-driven intelligent transportation systems utilize data resources generated within intelligent systems to improve the performance of transportation systems and provide convenient and reliable services. Traffic data refer to datasets generated and collected on moving vehicles and objects. Data visualization is an efficient means to represent distributions and structures of datasets and reveal hidden patterns in the data. This paper introduces the basic concept and pipeline of traffic data visualization, provides an overview of related data processing techniques, and summarizes existing methods for depicting the temporal, spatial, numerical, and categorical properties of traffic data.
Piezoelectric actuators (PEAs) have been widely used in nanotechnology due to their characteristics of fast response, large mass ratio, and high stiffness. However, hysteresis, which is an inherent nonlinear property of PEAs, greatly deteriorates the control performance of PEAs. In this paper, a nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC) approach is proposed for the displacement tracking problem of PEAs. First, a "nonlinear autoregressive-moving-average with exogenous inputs" (NARMAX) model of PEAs is implemented by multilayer neural networks; second, the tracking control problem is converted into an optimization problem by the principle of NMPC, and then, it is solved by the Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm. The most distinguished feature of the proposed approach is that the inversion model of hysteresis is no longer a necessity, which avoids the inversion imprecision problem encountered in the widely used inversion-based control algorithms. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed modeling and control methods, experiments are made on a commercial PEA product (P-753.1CD, Physik Instrumente), and comparisons with some existing controllers and a commercial proportional-integral-derivative controller are conducted. Experimental results show that the proposed scheme has satisfactory modeling and control performance.
A growing number of studies on streamflow projection in the context of global climate change have been widely reported in past years. However, current knowledge on the role of different hydrological models to estimate future climate impact on flood in the Tibet Plateau is still limited so far. In this work, a group of hydrological models in conjunction with statistical downscaling outputs (SDSM and ANN) from the HadCM3 GCM model are used to evaluate the impacts of climate change on floods in the 21st century over the headwater catchment of Yellow River, the Tibet Plateau. The influence of different hydrological models on flood projection and quantile estimation are addressed. The results show that: (1) three hydrological models generate acceptable results of flood magnitude and frequency at Tangnaihai station during the past 50 years; (2) quite similar projections for future floods are obtained by means of different hydrological models, decreasing flood magnitude corresponding to the 2-, 5-, 10- and 50-year return periods is found under most scenarios in the 21st century. Meanwhile, flood frequency is likely to reduce in response to climate change; (3) the uncertainty in projected flood quantile by three different hydrological models increases with recurrence interval in term of relative length of confidence interval (RL). Besides, RL for flood quantile in future climate scenarios is likely to become larger than the baseline period. The results are valuable to improve our current knowledge of climate impact research in the alpine regions.
This paper discusses a new policy iteration Q-learning algorithm to solve the infinite horizon optimal tracking problems for a class of discrete-time nonlinear systems. The idea is to use an iterative adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) technique to construct the iterative tracking control law which makes the system state track the desired state trajectory and simultaneously minimizes the iterative Q function. Via system transformation, the optimal tracking problem is transformed into an optimal regulation problem. The policy iteration Q-learning algorithm is then developed to obtain the optimal control law for the regulation system. Initialized by an arbitrary admissible control law, the convergence property is analyzed. It is shown that the iterative Q function is monotonically non-increasing and converges to the optimal Q function. It is proven that any of the iterative control laws can stabilize the transformed nonlinear system. Two neural networks are used to approximate the iterative Q function and compute the iterative control law, respectively, for facilitating the implementation of policy iteration Q-learning algorithm. Finally, two simulation examples are presented to illustrate the performance of the developed algorithm. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Heterogeneous formation shape control with interagent bearing and distance constraints involves the design of a distributed control law that ensures the formation moves such that these interagent constraints are achieved and maintained. This paper looks at the design of a distributed control scheme to solve different formation shape control problems in an ambient two-dimensional space with bearing, distance and mixed bearing and distance constraints. The proposed control law allows the agents in the formation to move in any direction on a half-plane and guarantees that despite this freedom, the proposed shape control algorithm ensures convergence to a formation shape meeting the prescribed constraints. This work provides an interesting and novel contrast to much of the existing work in formation control where distance-only constraints are typically maintained and where each agent's motion is typically restricted to follow a very particular path. A stability analysis is sketched, and a number of illustrative examples are also given. Copyright (c) 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
In this paper, we evaluate the control performance of SSVEP (steady-state visual evoked potential)- and P300-based models using Cerebot-a mind-controlled humanoid robot platform. Seven subjects with diverse experience participated in experiments concerning the open-loop and closed-loop control of a humanoid robot via brain signals. The visual stimuli of both the SSVEP-and P300-based models were implemented on a LCD computer monitor with a refresh frequency of 60 Hz. Considering the operation safety, we set the classification accuracy of a model over 90.0% as the most important mandatory for the telepresence control of the humanoid robot. The open-loop experiments demonstrated that the SSVEP model with at most four stimulus targets achieved the average accurate rate about 90%, whereas the P300 model with the six or more stimulus targets under five repetitions per trial was able to achieve the accurate rates over 90.0%. Therefore, the four SSVEP stimuli were used to control four types of robot behavior; while the six P300 stimuli were chosen to control six types of robot behavior. Both of the 4-class SSVEP and 6-class P300 models achieved the average success rates of 90.3% and 91.3%, the average response times of 3.65 s and 6.6 s, and the average information transfer rates (ITR) of 24.7 bits/min 18.8 bits/min, respectively. The closed-loop experiments addressed the telepresence control of the robot; the objective was to cause the robot to walk along a white lane marked in an office environment using live video feedback. Comparative studies reveal that the SSVEP model yielded faster response to the subject's mental activity with less reliance on channel selection, whereas the P300 model was found to be suitable for more classifiable targets and required less training. To conclude, we discuss the existing SSVEP and P300 models for the control of humanoid robots, including the models proposed in this paper.
The motion control of small motors in solution is significant for various applications, ranging from microfluidics, smart machines, to tiny robot. Here, we propose an electrical controlling method to flexibly manipulate liquid metalmotors powered with aluminium. It was discovered that adding aluminium to liquid metal droplets would significantly magnify its electric controlling capability, which provides dozens of times' driving force compared to pure GaIn10 droplets. After switching on the electrical field, the aluminium powered liquid metal droplet would accelerate its running speed to an extremely high magnitude, e.g. 43 cm s(-1) under 20V voltage, as measured in a channel with 1 cm width and filled with aqueous solution. In addition, we also observed that the motion trajectories of the motors in the free space of a Petri dish nearly reflect the electric field lines in the electrolyte, which suggests an important and straightforward way to visualize such complex physical property. Lastly, the oscillating motion behaviour of the motor under a small electrical voltage and its continuous running modality were experimentally discriminated and interpreted. The current findings on the Al-Ga-In motors generate profound impact on developing future microfluidic systems or tiny soft robots that are hard to achieve otherwise through conventional strategies.
A steady-state model of a small combined cooling and power (SCCP) system, which includes a micro gas turbine (MGT) and a LiBr-H2O single-effect absorption chiller with a cooling tower, is built to investigate the off-design performance of the system. The off-design performance of the compressor and expander of the MGT is described by characteristic maps. Holman correlation is applied to the calculation of heat transfer coefficients of the recuperator, evaporator, condenser, solution heat exchanger, and generator. The heat and mass transfer in the absorber are described according to a physical model based on Nusselt's film theory. The F-LMED method is applied in the cooling tower model. The system is evaluated under different MGT output power and ambient temperature. The effect of the different operation modes of cooling tower is studied. Simulation results show that the performance deterioration of the system is mainly caused by the poor performance of the MGT. The COP and cooling capacity vary smoothly under off-design condition in which the outlet water temperature of the cooling tower remains constant. The effects of the two operation modes of the cooling tower on the cooling capacity of the system do not differ greatly when energy quality is considered. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Principal component analysis (PCA) combined with artificial neural networks was used to classify the spectra of 27 steel samples acquired using laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy. Three methods of spectral data selection, selecting all the peak lines of the spectra, selecting intensive spectral partitions and the whole spectra, were utilized to compare the influence of different inputs of PCA on the classification of steels. Three intensive partitions were selected based on experience and prior knowledge to compare the classification, as the partitions can obtain the best results compared to all peak lines and the whole spectra. We also used two test data sets, mean spectra after being averaged and raw spectra without any pretreatment, to verify the results of the classification. The results of this comprehensive comparison show that a back propagation network trained using the principal components of appropriate, carefully selected spectral partitions can obtain the best results. A perfect result with 100% classification accuracy can be achieved using the intensive spectral partitions ranging of 357-367 nm.
Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak (EAST) is the first full superconducting tokamak device which was constructed at Institute of Plasma Physics Chinese Academy of Sciences (ASIPP). The EAST Articulated Maintenance Arm (EAMA) robot provides the means of the in-vessel maintenance such as inspection and picking up the fragments of first wall. This paper presents a method to identify and locate the fragments semi-automatically by using the computer vision. The use of computer vision in identification and location faces some difficult challenges such as shadows, poor contrast, low illumination level, less texture and so on. The method developed in this paper enables credible identification of objects with shadows through invariant image and edge detection. The proposed algorithms are validated through our ASIPP robotics and computer vision platform (ARVP). The results show that the method can provide a 3D pose with reference to robot base so that objects with different shapes and size can be picked up successfully. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The performance of text-based image retrieval is highly dependent on the tedious and inefficient manual work. For the purpose of realizing image keywords generated automatically, extensive work has been done in the area of image annotation. However, how to treat image diverse keywords and choose appropriate features are still two difficult problems. To address this challenge, we propose the multi-view stacked auto-encoder (MVSAE) framework to establish the correlations between the low-level visual features and high-level semantic information. In this paper, a new method, which incorporates the keyword frequencies and log-entropy, is presented to address the imbalanced distribution of keywords. In order to utilize the complementarities among diverse visual descriptors, we tactfully apply multi-view learning to search for the label-specific features. Thereafter, the image keywords are finally produced by appropriate features. Conducting extensive experiments on three popular data sets, we demonstrate that our proposed framework can achieve effective and favorable performance for image annotation. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Currently, there are a lot of man-made biomolecular computing systems. However, it is rare to see man-made biomolecular intelligence system. Learning ability is one of the basic abilities of intelligence. Many organisms have learning ability naturally. In this paper, we have successfully designed, constructed, and tested a genetic conditional learning system in the bacterium Escherichia coli. The system can recognize 'bad guy' signal with the help of 'study' signal. The function was realized by combining biomolecular AND gate and memory inverter. The AND gate used riboswitch as computation tool, and the memory inverter used Cre recombinase. Flow cytometry was used to verify the function of the system. This study is an attempt of constructing man-made biomolecular intelligence system. The system may lead to new applications for biomolecular computing, artificial intelligence, and biotherapy.
Robots are commonly used in harsh environments where it is difficult for humans to carry out dangerous tasks. Robot imitations provide a natural approach for humanoid robots to mimic the behavior of humans in real time. However, it is never an easy task to build an efficient and robust imitation system because of the high degree of freedom involved in motions. In this paper, we propose a human imitation system based on the Aldebaran NAO robot and the Microsoft Kinect, which can mimic the motions of the whole body in real time. By solving inverse kinematics through an optimization process, motions are split up into critical frames which are represented by a list of robot joint angles. Each joint angle is then derived through the control of the joint motors in NAO. In addition, balance maintenance in both the single and double supporting phases as well as the self-collision avoidance are taken into consideration. Experimental results show that the system is robust and flexible enough to imitate various human motions.
Most of the existing screw drive in-pipe robots cannot actively adjust the maximum traction capacity, which limits the adaptability to the wide range of variable environment resistance, especially in curved pipes. In order to solve this problem, a screw drive in-pipe robot based on adaptive linkage mechanism is proposed. The differential property of the adaptive linkage mechanism allows the robot to move without motion interference in the straight and varied curved pipes by adjusting inclining angles of rollers self-adaptively. The maximum traction capacity of the robot can be changed by actively adjusting the inclining angles of rollers. In order to improve the adaptability to the variable resistance, a torque control method based on the fuzzy controller is proposed. For the variable environment resistance, the proposed control method can not only ensure enough traction force, but also limit the output torque in a feasible region. In the simulations, the robot with the proposed control method is compared to the robot with fixed inclining angles of rollers. The results show that the combination of the torque control method and the proposed robot achieves the better adaptability to the variable resistance in the straight and curved pipes.
Multimodal learning has been mostly studied by assuming that multiple label assignments are independent of each other and all the modalities are available. In this paper, we consider a more general problem where the labels contain dependency relationships and some modalities are likely to be missing. To this end, we propose a multi-label conditional restricted Boltzmann machine (ML-CRBM), which handles modality completion, fusion, and multi-label prediction in a unified framework. The proposed model is able to generate missing modalities based on observed ones, by explicitly modelling and sampling their conditional distributions. After that, it can discriminatively fuse multiple modalities to obtain shared representations under the supervision of class labels. To consider the co-occurrence of the labels, the proposed model formulates the multi-label prediction as a max-margin-based multi-task learning problem. Model parameters can be jointly learned by seeking a balance between being generative for modality generation and being discriminative for label prediction. We perform a series of experiments in terms of classification, visualization, and retrieval, and the experimental results clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.
This paper proposes to learn features from sets of labeled raw images. With this method, the problem of over-fitting can be effectively suppressed, so that deep CNNs can be trained from scratch with a small number of training data, i e., 420 labeled albums with about 30 000 photos. This method can effectively deal with sets of images, no matter if the sets bear temporal structures. A typical approach to sequential image analysis usually leverages motions between adjacent frames, while the proposed method focuses on capturing the co-occurrences and frequencies of features. Nevertheless, our method outperforms previous best performers in terms of album classification, and achieves comparable or even better performances in terms of gait based human identification. These results demonstrate its effectiveness and good adaptivity to different kinds of set data.
The constrained optimal control problem depends on the solution of the complicated Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation (HJBE). In this paper, a data-based off-policy reinforcement learning (RL) method is proposed, which learns the solution of the HJBE and the optimal control policy from real system data. One important feature of the off-policy RL is that its policy evaluation can be realized with data generated by other behavior policies, not necessarily the target policy, which solves the insufficient exploration problem. The convergence of the off-policy RL is proved by demonstrating its equivalence to the successive approximation approach. Its implementation procedure is based on the actor-critic neural networks structure, where the function approximation is conducted with linearly independent basis functions. Subsequently, the convergence of the implementation procedure with function approximation is also proved. Finally, its effectiveness is verified through computer simulations. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Recently, many computational models have been proposed to simulate visual cognition process. For example, the hierarchical Max-Pooling (HMAX) model was proposed according to the hierarchical and bottom-up structure of V1 to V4 in the ventral pathway of primate visual cortex, which could achieve position-and scale-tolerant recognition. In our previous work, we have introduced memory and association into the HMAX model to simulate visual cognition process. In this paper, we improve our theoretical framework by mimicking a more elaborate structure and function of the primate visual cortex. We will mainly focus on the new formation of memory and association in visual processing under different circumstances as well as preliminary cognition and active adjustment in the inferior temporal cortex, which are absent in the HMAX model. The main contributions of this paper are: 1) in the memory and association part, we apply deep convolutional neural networks to extract various episodic features of the objects since people use different features for object recognition. Moreover, to achieve a fast and robust recognition in the retrieval and association process, different types of features are stored in separated clusters and the feature binding of the same object is stimulated in a loop discharge manner and 2) in the preliminary cognition and active adjustment part, we introduce preliminary cognition to classify different types of objects since distinct neural circuits in a human brain are used for identification of various types of objects. Furthermore, active cognition adjustment of occlusion and orientation is implemented to the model to mimic the top-down effect in human cognition process. Finally, our model is evaluated on two face databases CAS-PEAL-R1 and AR. The results demonstrate that our model exhibits its efficiency on visual recognition process with much lower memory storage requirement and a better performance compared with the traditional purely computational methods.
Geographic modeling and simulation is now regarded as a fundamental approach to geographic process mining and complex geographic problems, such as dam-break floods. With the rapid development of web services and network technologies in the context of GIS, it is possible to offer a new generation of geographic analysis tools that are based on new types of Web and computer-based geographic environments that are built for understanding geographic processes and problem solving. This paper focuses on the visual analysis and simulation of dam-break flood spatiotemporal process in a network environment. The simulations were implemented with HTML5, WebGL, Ajax and Web Service and other technologies and also included the rapid computation of spatiotemporal process models, B/S network architecture construction, three-dimensional scene rendering optimization and dynamic interaction analysis. Finally, a prototype system was constructed, and an experiment was conducted to analyze dam-break flood spatiotemporal process visually in a case study region in a network simulation. The experimental results show that the scheme addressed in this paper can be used to publish spatiotemporal process information, online impact analyses and three-dimensional visualization representations in a network environment that is suitable for browsing, querying and analysis. This scheme can be used efficiently to understand dam-break flood process and support dam-break risk management.
This paper presents a new approach for compensating nonlinear errors of a load cell, based on the optimal neural network with an augmented Lagrange multiplier (ALMNN). The load cell has serious nonlinear errors, which lower the accuracy of the weighing results. In this proposed approach, first, we construct the constraints for training the neural network (NN) using the load cell's prior knowledge, i.e., the monotonic increasing property of a load cell's input-output function. Second, we create the augmented Lagrange function with a multiplier and a penalty factor to serve as an NN's performance index, and then deduce the ALMNN's detailed training algorithm. The penalty factor plays an important role in ALMNN, thus the reasonable range of numerical value is discussed in this paper. Meanwhile, the weighing principle of a strain gauge load cell is introduced and its nonlinear error model is established. Finally, the experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of ALMNN. By comparing with the conventional data induction method (DINN, i.e., the training of NN not with the prior knowledge but only the data samples), ALMNN significantly improves the NN's generalization ability, especially in the case of lacking training samples. In addition, the applicability of ALMNN is verified by three additional experiments.
Multilabel image annotation is one of the most important open problems in computer vision field. Unlike existing works that usually use conventional visual features to annotate images, features based on deep learning have shown potential to achieve outstanding performance. In this work, we propose a multimodal deep learning framework, which aims to optimally integrate multiple deep neural networks pretrained with convolutional neural networks. In particular, the proposed framework explores a unified two stage learning scheme that consists of (i) learning to fine-tune the parameters of deep neural network with respect to each individual modality, and (ii) learning to find the optimal combination of diverse modalities simultaneously in a coherent process. Experiments conducted on a variety of public datasets evaluate the performance of the proposed framework for multilabel image annotation, in which the encouraging results validate the effectiveness of the proposed algorithms. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, a target tracking controller based on spiking neural network is proposed for autonomous robots. This controller encodes the preprocessed environmental and target information provided by CCD cameras, encoders and ultrasonic sensors into spike trains, which are integrated by a three-layer spiking neural network (SNN). The outputs of SNN are generated based on the competition between the forward/backward neuron pair corresponding to each motor, with the weights evolved by the Hebbian learning. The application to target tracking of a mobile robot in unknown environment verifies the validity of the proposed controller.
Along with the proliferation of mobile devices and wireless signal coverage, indoor localization based on Wi-Fi gets great popularity. Fingerprint based method is the mainstream approach for Wi-Fi indoor localization, for it can achieve high localization performance as long as labeled data are sufficient. However, the number of labeled data is always limited due to the high cost of data acquisition. Nowadays, crowd sourcing becomes an effective approach to gather large number of data; meanwhile, most of them are unlabeled. Therefore, it is worth studying the use of unlabeled data to improve localization performance. To achieve this goal, a novel algorithm Semi-supervised Deep Extreme Learning Machine (SDELM) is proposed, which takes the advantages of semi-supervised learning, Deep Leaning (DL), and Extreme Learning Machine (ELM), so that the localization performance can be improved both in the feature extraction procedure and in the classifier. The experimental results in real indoor environments show that the proposed SDELM not only outperforms other compared methods but also reduces the calibration effort with the help of unlabeled data. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Object recognition has been one of the hottest issues in the field of remote sensing image analysis. In this letter, a new pixel-wise learning method based on deep belief networks (DBNs) for object recognition is proposed. The method is divided into two stages, the unsupervised pre-training stage and the supervised fine-tuning stage. Given a training set of images, a pixel-wise unsupervised feature learning algorithm is utilized to train a mixed structural sparse restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM). After that, the outputs of this RBM are put into the next RBM as inputs. By stacking several layers of RBM, the deep generative model of DBNs is built. At the fine-tuning stage, a supervised layer is attached to the top of the DBN and labels of the data are put into this layer. The whole network is then trained using the back-propagation (BP) algorithm with sparse penalty. Finally, the deep model generates good joint distribution of images and their labels. Comparative experiments are conducted on our dataset acquired by QuickBird with 60 cm resolution and the recognition results demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of our proposed method.
The skin is the largest organ of the human body and can sense pressure, temperature, and other complex environmental stimuli or conditions. The mimicry of human skin's sensory ability via electronics is a topic of innovative research that could find broad applications in robotics, artificial intelligence, and human-machine interfaces, all of which promote the development of electronic skin (e-skin). To imitate tactile sensing via e-skins, flexible and stretchable pressure sensor arrays are constructed based on different transduction mechanisms and structural designs. These arrays can map pressure with high resolution and rapid response beyond that of human perception. Multi-modal force sensing, temperature, and humidity detection, as well as self-healing abilities are also exploited for multi-functional e-skins. Other recent progress in this field includes the integration with high-density flexible circuits for signal processing, the combination with wireless technology for convenient sensing and energy/data transfer, and the development of self-powered e-skins. Future opportunities lie in the fabrication of highly intelligent e-skins that can sense and respond to variations in the external environment. The rapidly increasing innovations in this area will be important to the scientific community and to the future of human life.
Endmember extraction (EE) is an important process in hyperspectral image processing, and swarm intelligence algorithms have been developed to provide effective solutions for EE. However, these algorithms have limitations in terms of their calculation efficiency. To increase the computing speed of these algorithms by fully utilizing their potential parallel nature, this paper uses the artificial bee colony (ABC) algorithm to develop a multiagent system (MAS) for extracting endmembers from hyperspectral images. In this paper, EE is described as an optimization problem that involves the simplex volume and root-mean-square error (RMSE), and the ABC algorithm is used to obtain the optimal solution to the problem. To accelerate the execution of the ABC algorithm, it is incorporated into an established MAS platform that provides the advantages of high parallel computing efficiency, flexible system architecture, and responsive fault tolerance. Artificial bees and food sources, which are the two key components of the ABC algorithm, are implemented as standalone software agents. Different agents cooperate with each other via communication and produce the optimal solution. Comparative experiments are conducted to evaluate the performance of the agent-based ABC approach. The results indicate that the proposed agent-based ABC method can effectively solve the EE problem in distributive and high-speed computing environments.
The proximity sensor is one of the most important devices in the field of robot application. It can accurately provide the proximity information to assistant robots to interact with human beings and the external environment safely. In this paper, we have proposed and demonstrated a dual-mode proximity sensor composed of capacitive and resistive sensing units. We defined the capacitive type proximity sensor perceiving the proximity information as C-mode and the resistive type proximity sensor detecting as R-mode. Graphene nanoplatelets (GNPs) were chosen as the R-mode sensing material because of its high performance. The dual-mode proximity sensor presents the following features: (1) the sensing distance of the dual-mode proximity sensor has been enlarged compared with the single capacitive proximity sensor in the same geometrical pattern; (2) experiments have verified that the proposed sensor can sense the proximity information of different materials; (3) the proximity sensing capability of the sensor has been improved by two modes perceive collaboratively, for a plastic block at a temperature of 60 degrees C: the R-mode will perceive the proximity information when the distance d between the sensor and object is 6.0-17.0 mm and the C-mode will do that when their interval is 0-2.0 mm; additionally two modes will work together when the distance is 2.0-6.0 mm. These features indicate our transducer is very valuable in skin-like sensing applications.
Organophosphate pesticides (OPs), as a replacement for the organochlorine pesticides, are generally considered non-toxic to plants and algae. Chlorpyrifos and dichlorvos are two OPs used for pest control all over the world. In this study, the dose response of cyanobacteria Microcystis wesenbergii on OPs exposure and the stimulating effect of OPs with and without phosphorus source were investigated. The results showed that high concentrations of chlorpyrifos and dichlorvos caused significant decrease of chlorophyll a content. The median inhibitory concentrations (EC50) of chlorpyrifos and dichlorvos at 96 h were 15.40 and 261.16 mu mol L-1, respectively. Growth of M. wesenbergii under low concentration of OPs (ranged from 1/10,000 to 1/20 EC50), was increased by 35.85 % (chlorpyrifos) and 41.83 % (dichlorvos) at 120 h, respectively. Correspondingly, the highest enhancement on the maximum quantum yield (F-v/F-m) was 4.20 % (24 h) and 9.70 % (48 h), respectively. Chlorophyll fluorescence kinetics, known as O-J-I-P transients, showed significant enhancements in the O-J, J-I, and I-P transients under low concentrations of dichlorvos at 144 h, while enhancements of chlorophyll fluorescence kinetics induced by low concentrations of chlorpyrifos were only observed in the J-I transient at 144 h. Significant decreases of chlorophyll content, F-v/F-m and O-J-I-P transients with OPs as sole phosphorus source were found when they were compared with inorganic phosphate treatments. The results demonstrated an evidently hormetic dose response of M. wesenbergii to both chlorpyrifos and dichlorvos, where high dose (far beyond environmental concentrations) exposure caused growth inhibition and low dose exposure induced enhancement on physiological processes. The stimulating effect of two OPs on growth of M. wesenbergii was negligible under phosphate limitation.
In this paper, Takagi-Sugeno (T-S) fuzzy control is proposed for stabilizing the output beam of accelerators. To model the nonlinear system, we proposed a hybrid optimization algorithm based on quantum-inspired differential evolution and genetic algorithm. Based on the T-S model identified, the corresponding state-feedback fuzzy controller is designed. The method is applied to the LaB6 electron gun system in the industrial radiation accelerator and the simulation results show its effectiveness.
For the purpose of fast methods for handling huge amounts of data coming from future solar spectropolarimeters, the statistical machine-learning techniques based on Mercer's kernel were applied to the inversion of the photospheric magnetic fields from polarimetric data. In particular, the Regularized Neural Network and the Support Vector Machine were tested for the data from the Helioseismic and Magnetic Imager on the Solar Dynamics Observatory.
Multi-model comparison can provide useful information for model selection and improvement. In this study, twelve monthly water balance models with different structures and various degree of complexity are compared in 153 catchments with different climatic conditions in China. Generally, the GR5M model has the best performance, followed by the GR2M and WBM model. We investigate the relations between model performance and catchment characteristics and find that the climatic characteristic of a catchment is the most important factor impacting model performance. The models have better performance in wet catchments than in dry catchments. Large differences of model performance exist in dry catchments and model users should pay attention to model selection in dry catchments. In addition, we analyze the model performances among different models and conclude that increasing the model complexity does not guarantee a better model performance. Simple models can achieve comparable or even better performance than complex models, For the monthly simulation of hydrological processes, a two-parameter model is sufficient to achieve a good result. Moreover, by comparing the impacts of evapotranspiration simulation and runoff generation simulation on model performance, we find that evapotranspiration simulation has limited influence on the model performance. We suggest model builders focus on runoff generation process rather than evapotranspiration process to improve the performance of a monthly hydrological model. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Drug-induced liver injury (DILI) has been the single most frequent cause of safety-related drug marketing withdrawals for the past 50 years. Recently, deep learning (DL) has been successfully applied in many fields due to its exceptional and automatic learning ability. In this study, DILI prediction models were developed using DL architectures, and the best model trained on 475 drugs predicted an external validation set of 198 drugs with an accuracy of 86.9%, sensitivity of 82.5%, specificity of 92.9%, and area under the curve of 0.955, which is better than the performance of previously described DILI prediction models. Furthermore, with deep analysis, we also identified important molecular features that are related to DILI. Such DL models could improve the prediction of DILI risk in humans. The DL DILI prediction models are freely available at http://www.repharma.cn/DILIserver/DILI_home.php.
Pigeons (Columba livia) have excellent flying and orienting abilities and are ideal study subjects for biologists who research the underlying neurological mechanisms that modulate flying and allow birds to find their way home. These mechanisms also attract the engineers who want to apply pigeon locomotion to the design of flying robots. Here, we identified the motor-related brain nuclei and revealed their relationship in spatial distribution in pigeons under light anesthesia and freely moving. conditions respectively. Flapping and lateral body movements were successfully elicited when electrical microstimulation was applied to the diencephalon, medial part of the midbrain, and medulla oblongata of lightly anesthetized pigeons (N=28) whose heads were fixed. The current thresholds for stimulating different nuclei and behavior ranged from 10 mu A to 20 mu A. During freely moving tests (N = 24), taking off and turning were induced by a wireless stimulator through microelectrodes implanted in specific nuclei or brain regions. The results showed that electrical stimulation of these nuclei elicited the desired motor behavior. In addition, regulatory mechanisms were identified in the motor-related regions and nuclei of pigeons. Overlapping in the behavior elicited by stimulation of different regions indicates that complicated neural networks regulate motor behavior. Therefore, more studies need to be conducted involving simultaneous stimulation at multiple points within the nuclei involved in the networks.
The major challenge in printable electronics fabrication is to effectively and accurately control a drop-on-demand (DoD) inkjet printhead for high printing quality. In this work, an optimal prediction model, constructed with the lumped element modeling (LEM) and the artificial bee colony (ABC) algorithm, was proposed to efficiently predict the combination of waveform parameters for obtaining the desired droplet properties. For acquiring higher simulation accuracy, a modified dynamic lumped element model (DLEM) was proposed with time-varying equivalent circuits, which can characterize the nonlinear behaviors of piezoelectric printhead. The proposed method was then applied to investigate the influences of various waveform parameters on droplet volume and velocity of nano-silver ink, and to predict the printing quality using nano-silver ink. Experimental results show that, compared with two-dimension manual search, the proposed optimal prediction model perform efficiently and accurately in searching the appropriate combination of waveform parameters for printable electronics fabrication.
In this paper, a self-learning control scheme is proposed for the infinite horizon optimal control of affine nonlinear systems based on the action dependent heuristic dynamic programming algorithm. The policy iteration technique is introduced to derive the optimal control policy with feasibility and convergence analysis. It shows that the "greedy" control action for each state is uniquely existent, the learned control policy after each policy iteration is admissible, and the optimal control policy is able to be obtained. Two three-layer perceptron neural networks are employed to implement the scheme. The critic network is trained by a novel rule to conform to the Bellman equation, and the action network is trained to yield a better control policy. Both training processes alternate until the optimal control policy is achieved. Two simulation examples are provided to validate the effectiveness of the approach.
This paper presents a bio-inspired caterpillar-like climbing method. Natural caterpillars climb relatively slow, but their multisegmented body trunk strongly enhances climbing versatility and stability, which thus motivates us to design an imitative robot to study the caterpillar-like climbing locomotion. Based on observations from natural caterpillars, we propose a three-stage climbing method to imitate the caterpillar-like straight line climbing on a planar wall. Due to the redundancy property of caterpillars' multisegmented body trunk, we formulate the caterpillar-like climbing problem as an end-effector tracking problem using the redundant robotics terminology. A dual-mode optimal controller, which effectively resolves the end-effector tracking problem even when the robot configuration is ill-conditioned, is incorporated for realizing the caterpillar-like climbing locomotion. Both simulation and experiment results are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed caterpillar-like climbing method.
This paper is concerned with the problem of type-2 fuzzy adaptive inverse control for a cable-driven parallel system. Based on the heuristics and prior knowledge of the system, the system is divided into six subsystems. The proposed control scheme for each subsystem contains a forward model and a fuzzy adaptive inverse controller (FAIC), which are expressed by an interval type-2 fuzzy nonlinear autoregressive exogenous (NARX) model, respectively. To construct the antecedents of the interval type-2 fuzzy NARX forward models and FAICs, the monotonic property of the fuzzy NARX model is first proved, and then, their antecedent parameters can be determined by this property. Furthermore, the consequent parameters of the forward models are computed of-fline via a constrained least squares algorithm, and the consequent parameters of the FAIC are adjusted online via a recursive least squares algorithm. Experiment results are provided to show that the proposed type-2 fuzzy control scheme can realize the control objectives and achieve a good control performance.
Scene recognition is an important problem in the field of computer vision, because it helps to narrow the gap between the computer and the human beings on scene understanding. Semantic modeling is a popular technique used to fill the semantic gap in scene recognition. However, most of the semantic modeling approaches learn shallow, one-layer representations for scene recognition, while ignoring the structural information related between images, often resulting in poor performance. Modeled after our own human visual system, as it is intended to inherit humanlike judgment, a manifold regularized deep architecture is proposed for scene recognition. The proposed deep architecture exploits the structural information of the data, making for a mapping between visible layer and hidden layer. By the proposed approach, a deep architecture could be designed to learn the high-level features for scene recognition in an unsupervised fashion. Experiments on standard data sets show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art used for scene recognition.
In this paper, a class of nonholonomic chained systems is first converted into two subsystems, and then an explicit exponential decaying term is introduced into the input of the first subsystem to guarantee its controllability. After a state-scaling transformation, a model predictive control (MPC) scheme is proposed for the nonholonomic chained systems. The proposed MPC scheme employs a general projection neural network (GPN) to iteratively solve a quadratic programming (QP) problem over a finite receding horizon. The GPN employed in this paper is proved to be stable in the sense of Lyapunov, and its global convergence to the optimal solution is guaranteed for the reformulated QP. A simulation study is performed to show stable and convergent control performance under the proposed method, irrespective of whether the control input u(1) vanishes or not.
Since the conventional impedance control method for a rover arm is not suitable for unconstructed environment with uncertainties, a fuzzy inference method which improves the impedance model dynamically is introduced to realize high-precision control. The fuzzy PD control algorithm which applies to the joint control of a rover arm is analyzed in this paper. With the two level control algorithms, a novel dual-layer fuzzy control framework is proposed, which can enhance the control performance significantly. In order to verify the validity and reliability of the designed algorithms, the robotic arm of the CAS rover is considered as an experimental platform. Kinematics and dynamics models of robotic arm are derived at first. Moreover, the fuzzy inference mechanism and implementation process of impedance model parameters are illustrated. Extensive simulations and experimental results show that the control accuracy and the force control of the system have been significantly improved with the proposed dual-layer fuzzy control architecture.
The issue of air quality regarding PM pollution levels in China is a focus of public attention. To address that issue, to date, a series of studies is in progress, including PM monitoring programs, PM source apportionment, and the enactment of new ambient air quality index standards. However, related research concerning computer modeling for PM future trends estimation is rare, despite its significance to forecasting and early warning systems. Thereby, a study regarding deterministic and interval forecasts of PM is performed. In this study, data on hourly and 12 h-averaged air pollutants are applied to forecast PM concentrations within the Yangtze River Delta (YRD) region of China. The characteristics of PM emissions have been primarily examined and analyzed using different distribution functions. To improve the distribution fitting that is crucial for estimating PM levels, an artificial intelligence algorithm is incorporated to select the optimal parameters. Following that step, an ANF model is used to conduct deterministic forecasts of PM. With the identified distributions and deterministic forecasts, different levels of PM intervals are estimated. The results indicate that the lognormal or gamma distributions are highly representative of the recorded PM data with a goodness-of-fit R-2 of approximately 0.998. Furthermore, the results of the evaluation metrics (MSE, MAPE and CP, AW) also show high accuracy within the deterministic and interval forecasts of PM, indicating that this method enables the informative and effective quantification of future PM trends. (C) 2015 Published by Elsevier Ltd.
With new depth sensing technology such as Kinect providing high quality synchronized RGB and depth images (RGB-D data), combining the two distinct views for object recognition has attracted great interest in computer vision and robotics community. Recent methods mostly employ supervised learning methods for this new RGB-D modality based on the two feature sets. However, supervised learning methods always depend on large amount of manually labeled data for training models. To address the problem, this paper proposes a semi-supervised learning method to reduce the dependence on large annotated training sets. The method can effectively learn from relatively plentiful unlabeled data, if powerful feature representations for both the RGB and depth view can be extracted. Thus, a novel and effective feature termed CNN-SPM-RNN is proposed in this paper, and four representative features (KDES [1], CKM [2], HMP [3] and CNN-RNN [4]) are evaluated and compared with ours under the unified semi-supervised learning framework. Finally, we verify our method on three popular and publicly available RGB-D object databases. The experimental results demonstrate that, with only 20% labeled training set, the proposed method can achieve competitive performance compared with the state of the arts on most of the databases. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Residential energy scheduling is a hot topic nowadays in the background of energy saving and environmental protection worldwide. To achieve this objective, a new residential energy scheduling algorithm is developed for energy management, based on action dependent heuristic dynamic programming. The algorithm works under the circumstance of residential real-time pricing and two adjacent housing units with energy inter-exchange, which can reduce the overall cost and enhance renewable energy efficiency after long-term operation. It is designed to obtain the optimal control policy to manage the directions and amounts of electricity energy flux. The algorithm's architecture is mainly constructed based on neural networks, denoting the learned characteristics in the linkage of layers. To get close to real situations, many constraints such as maximum charging/discharging power of batteries are taken into account. The absent energy penalty cost is developed for the first time as a part of the performance index function. When the environment changes, the residential energy scheduling algorithm gains new features and keeps adapting in real-time operations. Simulation results show that the developed algorithm is beneficial to energy conversation. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
ITER correction coil (CC) cases have characteristics of small cross section, large dimensions, and complex structure. The cases are made of heavy thick (20 mm), high strength and high toughness 316LN austenitic stainless steel. The laser welding is used for the case closure welding, due to its low heat input and deformation. According to the structural size and feature of the two types of cases, a set of laser welding workstation for the ITER CC case closure welding is designed. A slip plate module for the welding robot is designed to increase its workspace. According to the result of the movement simulation of the welding robots, the workstation is successful to cover all weld seams on the cases. Also, the welding platform and fixtures (includes the special welding tilter of the SCC) of the BTCC case and the SCC cases are designed. To verify the design structural feasibility of the welding tilter of SCC, the structural analysis for the rotating process has been formed in detail by using ANSYS. The simulating results show that the stress of the welding tilter can meet both static and fatigue criteria, and thus the basic structure is valid.
Material problem is one of the key issues for the realization of fusion energy. Reduced Activation Ferritic/Martensitic steels have been considered to be the primary candidate structural material for fusion DEMO reactors and the first fusion power plants. China low activation martensitic steel (CLAM) has been chosen as the primary structure material in the designs of FDS series PbLi blankets for fusion reactors, CN helium cooled ceramic breeder test blanket module for ITER, liquid blanket of China fusion engineering test reactor (CFETR). In this work, optimization of CLAM steel composition was performed based on extreme learning machine method. The results showed that CLAM steel with Ta content of 0.18-0.20 % had better tensile property at the temperature of 350-550 A degrees C, which provided references for the optimization of CLAM steel composition.
Learning nonstationary data with concept drift has received much attention in machine learning and been an active topic in ensemble learning. Specifically, batch growing ensemble methods present one important direction for dealing with concept drift involved in nonstationary data. However, current batch growing ensemble methods combine all the available component classifiers only, each trained independently from a batch of non-stationary data. They simply discard interim ensembles and hence may lose useful information obtained from the fine-tuned interim ensembles. Distinctively, we introduce a comprehensive hierarchical approach called Dynamic Ensemble of Ensembles (DE2). The novel method combines classifiers as an ensemble of all the interim ensembles dynamically from consecutive batches of nonstationary data. DE2 includes two key stages: component classifiers and interim ensembles are dynamically trained; and the final ensemble is then learned by exponentially-weighted averaging with available experts, i.e., interim ensembles. Moreover, we engage Sparsity Learning to choose component classifiers selectively and intelligently. We also incorporate the techniques of Dynamic Weighted Majority, and Learn(++).NSE for better integrating different classifiers dynamically. We perform experiments with two benchmark test sets in real nonstationary environments, and compare our DE2 method to other conventional competitive ensemble methods. Experimental results confirm that our approach consistently leads to better performance and has promising generalization ability for learning in nonstationary environments. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, we establish a neural-network-based decentralized control law to stabilize a class of continuous-time nonlinear interconnected large-scale systems using an online model-free integral policy iteration (PI) algorithm. The model-free PI approach can solve the decentralized control problem for the interconnected system which has unknown dynamics. The stabilizing decentralized control law is derived based on the optimal control policies of the isolated subsystems. The online model-free integral PI algorithm is developed to solve the optimal control problems for the isolated subsystems with unknown system dynamics. We use the actor-critic technique based on the neural network and the least squares implementation method to obtain the optimal control policies. Two simulation examples are given to verify the applicability of the decentralized control law. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Map learning and self-localization based on perception of the environment's structure are fundamental capacities required for intelligent robots to realize true autonomy. Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) is an effective technique for such robots, as it addresses the problem of incrementally building an environment map from noisy sensory data and tracking the robot's path with the built map. As a popular SLAM solution, FastSLAM suffers from limitation on error accumulation introduced by incorrect odometry model and inaccurate linearization of the SLAM nonlinear functions. To overcome the problem, a new Jacobian free neural network (NN) based FastSLAM algorithm is derived and discussed in this paper. The main contribution of the algorithm is twofold: on the one hand, the odometry error is online compensated by using a multilayer NN, and the NN is online trained during the SLAM process; on the other hand, the third-degree Cubature rule for Gaussian weighted integral, which calculates nonlinear transition density of Gaussian prior up to the 3rd order nonlinearity, is utilized to estimate the SLAM state (i.e., the robot path and environment map) and to online train the NN compensator. The performance of proposed SLAM is investigated and compared with that of popular FastSLAM2.0 in simulations and experiments. Results show that the proposed method improves the SLAM performance. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
We describe an algorithm that helps to predict potential distributional areas for species using presence-only records. The Marble Algorithm is a density-based clustering program based on Hutchinson's concept of ecological niches as multidimensional hypervolumes in environmental space. The algorithm characterizes this niche space using the density-based spatial clustering of applications with noise (DBSCAN) algorithm. When MA is provided with a set of occurrence points in environmental space, the algorithm determines two parameters that allow the points to be grouped into several clusters. These clusters are used as reference sets describing the ecological niche, which can then be mapped onto geographic space and used as the potential distribution of the species. We used both virtual species and ten empirical datasets to compare MA with other distribution-modeling tools, including Bioclimate Analysis and Prediction System, Environmental Niche Factor Analysis, the Genetic Algorithm for Rule-set Production, Maximum Entropy Modeling, Artificial Neural Networks, Climate Space Models, Classification Tree Analysis, Generalised Additive Models, Generalised Boosted Models, Generalised Linear Models, Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines and Random Forests. Results indicate that MA predicts potential distributional areas with high accuracy, moderate robustness, and above-average transferability on all datasets, particularly when dealing with small numbers of occurrences.
Flood disaster has been one of the most frequent and devastating forms in middle Yellow River, China. Huge flood events transport sediments from upstream to downstream, and lead to changes of river morphology, such as river bed slope, channel roughness, and flood routing process. Flood disasters in the middle Yellow River were constantly caused by backwater effects due to multiple river stream confluence effects. The study aims to investigate confluent flood flow effects on flood routing processes, river morphology, and human activities based on a proposed flood flow model. The proposed model is constructed through coupling hydraulic equations, artificial intelligence neural network and probability theory. Flood frequency analysis is coupled with studies of hydrological routing processes that reduce the flood capacity of the rivers. Flood routing to the confluence were simulated using kinematic wave theory. Case studies have been carried out through field work and model simulation during the past years. Findings are achieved as followings. Firstly, flood frequency at the confluence implies that the confluent extreme flood occurs more frequently in the main streams than that in the tributaries due to influential intensity of East-Asian summer monsoon. Secondly, river morphology was altered partly due to complex flood routing processes in the middle Yellow River under the operation of Sanmenxia Reservoir. The alternated river channels changed the boundary conditions of flood routing, especially for backwater. Bed slopes have greater impacts on flood routing process than roughness does when there is larger flood flow. Finally, the evolution process of the sediment transportation is closely linked with the operations of the Sanmenxia Reservoir. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd and INQUA. All rights reserved.
Optimizing operational parameters for syngas production of Texaco coal-water slurry gasifier studied in this paper is a complicated nonlinear constrained problem concerning 3 BP (Error Back Propagation) neural networks. To solve this model, a new 3-layer cultural evolving algorithm framework which has a population space, a medium space and a belief space is firstly conceived. Standard differential evolution algorithm (DE), genetic algorithm (GA), and particle swarm optimization algorithm (PSO) are embedded in this framework to build 3-layer mixed cultural DE/GA/PSO (3LM-CDE, 3LM-CGA, and 3LM-CPSO) algorithms. The accuracy and efficiency of the proposed hybrid algorithms are firstly tested in 20 benchmark nonlinear constrained functions. Then, the operational optimization model for syngas production in a Texaco coal-water slurry gasifier of a real-world chemical plant is solved effectively. The simulation results are encouraging that the 3-layer cultural algorithm evolving framework suggests ways in which the performance of DE, GA, PSO and other population-based evolutionary algorithms (EAs) can be improved, and the optimal operational parameters based on 3LM-CDE algorithm of the syngas production in the Texaco coal-water slurry gasifier shows outstanding computing results than actual industry use and other algorithms. (C) 2015 The Chemical Industry and Engineering Society of China, and Chemical Industry Press. All rights reserved.
This paper estimates an off-policy integral reinforcement learning (IRL) algorithm to obtain the optimal tracking control of unknown chaotic systems. Off-policy IRL can learn the solution of the HJB equation from the system data generated by an arbitrary control. Moreover, off-policy IRL can be regarded as a direct learning method, which avoids the identification of system dynamics. In this paper, the performance index function is first given based on the system tracking error and control error. For solving the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) equation, an off-policy IRL algorithm is proposed. It is proven that the iterative control makes the tracking error system asymptotically stable, and the iterative performance index function is convergent. Simulation study demonstrates the effectiveness of the developed tracking control method.
Behavioral responses (BRs) of medaka (Oryzias latipes) were observed after exposure to low concentrations (0.1 TU (Toxic Unit, TU), 1 TU, 5 TU, and 10 TU) of trichlorfon, parathion and malathion. Overall response patterns of test organisms were reflected from surface shapes of BS (Behavior Strength) values in 3-D: parathion appeared to be most variable in presenting response behaviors whereas trichlorfon showed relatively simple response patterns. The self-organizing map (SOM) addressed the time and toxic effects efficiently. An evident circadian rhythm observed in the control diminished at a low concentration of toxic unit, and variability of toxic effects was accordingly observed according to chemicals and concentrations. Subsequently filtering by integration was conducted to time series BS values. The highly fluctuating nature of original BS values was filtered efficiently to produce linear fitting closely. Slopes of regression decreased monotonically as toxic concentrations increased. Residual curves of integral BS values from linear fitting were further used for determining different BS phases proposed by empirical observations; the positive and negative phases were in accordance with acclimation, adjustment and toxic effects in behavior response modes. According to inclination and declination periods observed in residual curves, new states of test organisms were further defined to present intoxicating and recovering tendencies Profiles based on residual curves of integral BS values were able to show landscape of response patterns across toxic concentrations in different chemicals. Computational methods for defining behavior states provide an objective ground for analyzing complex stress response and could be suitable in referencing toxic behavior modes of test organisms quantitatively. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Background: Randomized trials with antidepressants are often run under double blind placebo-controlled conditions, whereas those with psychotherapies are mostly unblinded. This can introduce bias in favor of psychotherapy when the treatments are directly compared. In this meta-analysis, we examine this potential source of bias.
Automatic localization of the standard plane containing complicated anatomical structures in ultrasound (US) videos remains a challenging problem. In this paper, we present a learning-based approach to locate the fetal abdominal standard plane (FASP) in US videos by constructing a domain transferred deep convolutional neural network (CNN). Compared with previous works based on low-level features, our approach is able to represent the complicated appearance of the FASP and hence achieve better classification performance. More importantly, in order to reduce the overfitting problem caused by the small amount of training samples, we propose a transfer learning strategy, which transfers the knowledge in the low layers of a base CNN trained from a large database of natural images to our task-specific CNN. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach outperforms the state-of-the-art method for the FASP localization as well as the CNN only trained on the limited US training samples. The proposed approach can be easily extended to other similar medical image computing problems, which often suffer from the insufficient training samples when exploiting the deep CNN to represent high-level features.
Sentiment analysis mainly focuses on the study of one's opinions that express positive or negative sentiments. With the explosive growth of web documents, sentiment analysis is becoming a hot topic in both academic research and system design. Fine-grained sentiment analysis is traditionally solved as a 2-step strategy, which results in cascade errors. Although joint models, such as joint sentiment/topic and maximum entropy (MaxEnt)/latent Dirichlet allocation, are proposed to tackle this problem of sentiment analysis, they focus on the joint learning of both aspects and sentiments. Thus, they are not appropriate to solve the cascade errors for sentiment analysis at the sentence or subsentence level. In this article, we present a novel jointly fine-grained sentiment analysis framework at the subsentence level with Markov logic. First, we divide the task into 2 separate stages (subjectivity classification and polarity classification). Then, the 2 separate stages are processed, respectively, with different feature sets, which are implemented by local formulas in Markov logic. Finally, global formulas in Markov logic are adopted to realize the interactions of the 2 separate stages. The joint inference of subjectivity and polarity helps prevent cascade errors. Experiments on a Chinese sentiment data set manifest that our joint model brings significant improvements.
This paper considers the cooperative robust output regulation for second-order discrete-time multi-agent systems. Each agent could access the information with its neighbors under the directed network topology. A distributed dynamic state feedback control law is designed. A stability region is given for the discrete-time multi-agent systems, and internal model method is used for the robust output regulation problem. At last, numerical simulation is utilized to show the effectiveness of the obtained results. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Support vector machines (SVMs) have played an important role in the state-of-the-art language recognition systems. The recently developed extreme learning machine (ELM) tends to have better scalability and achieve similar or much better generalization performance at much faster learning speed than traditional SVM. Inspired by the excellent feature of ELM, in this paper, we propose a novel method called regularized minimum class variance extreme learning machine (RMCVELM) for language recognition. The RMCVELM aims at minimizing empirical risk, structural risk, and the intra-class variance of the training data in the decision space simultaneously. The proposed method, which is computationally inexpensive compared to SVM, suggests a new classifier for language recognition and is evaluated on the 2009 National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) language recognition evaluation (LRE). Experimental results show that the proposed RMCVELM obtains much better performance than SVM. In addition, the RMCVELM can also be applied to the popular i-vector space and get comparable results to the existing scoring methods.
The communication weights in traditional consensus problems are all positive, while the communication weights in group consensus are partly real numbers. In addition, with regard to energy consumption and communication constraints, event-triggered control has advantages over periodic control. Therefore, it is of great significance to investigate group consensus based on event-triggered control. We develop two event-triggered functions to decide when to activate the control input in centralized and decentralized cases, respectively. Additionally, the infamous Zeno behavior can be excluded in the centralized case. Moreover, in the decentralized case, we simplify the event-triggered function by calculating the maximum and minimum of the corresponding parameters, so as to save memory of the systems. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To weaken the nonlinear coupling influences among the variables in the speed and tension system of reversible cold strip rolling mill, a novel dynamic decoupling control strategy is proposed based on nonsingular fast terminal sliding mode (NFTSM) and wavelet neural network (WNN). First, nonlinear disturbance observers are developed to counteract the mismatched uncertainties, and then input/output dynamic decoupling and linearisation for the speed and tension nonlinear coupling system are realised by utilising the inverse system theory. Second, nonsingular fast terminal sliding mode controller (NFTSMC) for each pseudo linear subsystem is presented based on backstepping and two-power reaching law, so as to improve the global convergence speed and robust stability of the system. Third, adaptive WNNs are used to approximate the uncertain items of the system, so as to improve the control precision of the speed and tension of reversible cold strip rolling mill. Theoretical analyses show that the NFTSMs satisfy reachability condition, the system error variables can converge to equilibrium point in finite time, and the resulting closed-loop system is globally asymptotically stable. Finally, simulation research is carried out on the speed and tension system of a 1422 mm reversible cold strip rolling mill by using the actual data, and results show the superiority of the proposed control strategy in comparison with the strategies of cascade PI, linear sliding mode control and internal model control.
Neuromorphic devices with paired pulse facilitation emulating that of biological synapses are the key to develop artificial neural networks. Here, phosphorus-doped nanogranular SiO2 electrolyte is used as gate dielectric for protonic/electronic hybrid indium gallium zinc oxide (IGZO) synaptic transistor. In such synaptic transistors, protons within the SiO2 electrolyte are deemed as neurotransmitters of biological synapses. Paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) behaviors for the analogous information were mimicked. The temperature dependent PPF behaviors were also investigated systematically. The results indicate that the protonic/electronic hybrid IGZO synaptic transistors would be promising candidates for inorganic synapses in artificial neural network applications. (C) 2015 Author(s). All article content, except where otherwise noted, is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License.
This paper presents a new biped mechanism with low-cost easy-operation features. The mechanism is designed with functions for straight walking, changing direction, overcoming obstacle, and climbing stairs with only 7 DOFs (degrees of freedom). Dynamics of the biped mechanism are analyzed by means of simulations in the MSC. ADAMS environment. Simulation results in terms of motion torque, joint force, contact force, parts displacement, velocity, and acceleration are reported and analyzed to show the feasibility and efficiency of the proposed solution. In addition, with the simulation results, dynamical motion of the biped mechanism is investigated and its operation performances are characterized as well.
In recent years, inexact computing has been increasingly regarded as one of the most promising approaches for slashing energy consumption in many applications that can tolerate a certain degree of inaccuracy. Driven by the principle of trading tolerable amounts of application accuracy in return for significant resource savings-the energy consumed, the (critical path) delay, and the (silicon) area-this approach has been limited to application-specified integrated circuits (ASICs) so far. These ASIC realizations have a narrow application scope and are often rigid in their tolerance to inaccuracy, as currently designed; the latter often determining the extent of resource savings we would achieve. In this paper, we propose to improve the application scope, error resilience and the energy savings of inexact computing by combining it with hardware neural networks. These neural networks are fast emerging as popular candidate accelerators for future heterogeneous multicore platforms and have flexible error resilience limits owing to their ability to be trained. Our results in 65-nm technology demonstrate that the proposed inexact neural network accelerator could achieve 1.78-2.67x savings in energy consumption (with corresponding delay and area savings being 1.23 and 1.46x, respectively) when compared to the existing baseline neural network implementation, at the cost of a small accuracy loss (mean squared error increases from 0.14 to 0.20 on average).
Modeling of soil water content (SWC) is one of the most studied topics in hydrology due to its essential application to water resources management. In this study, an adaptive neuro fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) method is used to simulate SWC in the extreme arid area. In-situ SWC datasets for soil layers, with depths of 40 cm (layer 1), 60 cm (layer 2) below surface was taken for the present study. The models analyzed different combinations of antecedent SWC values and the appropriate input vector has been selected based on the analysis of residuals. The performance of the ANFIS models in training and validation sets are compared with the observed data. In layer 1, the model which consists of six antecedent values of SWC, has been selected as the best fit model for SWC modeling. On the other hand, which includes two antecedent values of SWC, has been selected as the best fit model for SWC modeling at layer 2. In order to assess the ability of ANFIS model relative to that of the ANN model, the best fit of ANFIS model of layer 1 and layer 2 structures are also tested by two artificial neural networks (ANN), namely, Levenberg-Marquardt feedforward neural network (ANN-1) and Bayesian regularization feedforward neural network (ANN-2). The comparison was made according to the various statistical measures. A detailed comparison of the overall performance indicated that the ANFIS model performed better than both the ANN-1 and ANN-2 in SWC modeling for the validation data sets in this study. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Game tree search is a classical problemin the field of game theory and artificial intelligence. Fast game tree search algorithm is critical for computer games asking for real-time responses. In this paper, we focus on how to leverage massive parallelism capabilities of GPU to accelerate the speed of game tree search algorithms and propose a concise and general parallel game tree search algorithm on GPU. The performance model of our algorithm is presented and analyzed theoretically. We implement the algorithm for two real computer games called Connect6 and Chess. We also use these two games to verify the effectiveness and efficiency of our algorithm. Experiments support our theoretical results and show good performance of our approach. Compared to classical CPU-based game tree search algorithms, our algorithm can achieve speedups of 89.95x for Connect6 and 11.43x for Chess, in case of no pruning. When pruning is considered, which means the practical performance of our algorithm, the speedup can reach about 10.58x for Connect6 and 7.26x for Chess. The insight of our work is that using GPU is a feasible way to improve the performance of game tree search algorithms.
In this paper, a direct adaptive state-feedback control approach is developed for a class of nonlinear systems in discrete-time (DT) domain. We study MIMO unknown nonaffine nonlinear DT systems and employ a two-layer NN to design the controller. By using the presented method, the NN approximation is able to cancel the nonlinearity of the unknown DT plant. Meanwhile, pretraining is not required, and the weights of NNs used in adaptive control are directly updated online. Moreover, unlike standard NN adaptive controllers yielding uniform ultimate boundedness results, the tracking error is guaranteed to be uniformly asymptotically stable by utilizing Lyapunov's direct method. Two illustrative examples are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness and the applicability of the theoretical results. Copyright (c) 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
This paper considers the convergence rate of an asymmetric Deffuant-Weisbuch model.The model is composed by finite n interacting agents. In this model, agent i's opinion is updated ateach time, by first selecting one randomly from n agents, and then combining the selected agent j's opinion if the distance between j's opinion and i's opinion is not larger than the confidence radius E >(0). This yields the endogenously changing inter-agent topologies. Based on the previous result that all agents opinions will converge almost surely for any initial states, the authors prove that the expected potential function of the convergence rate is upper bounded by a negative exponential function of time t when opinions reach consensus finally and is upper bounded by a negative power function of time t when opinions converge to several different limits.
Deep learning models have gained significant interest as a way of building hierarchical image representation. However, current models still perform far behind human vision system because of the lack of selective property, the lack of high-level guidance for learning and the weakness to learn from few examples. To address these problems, we propose a detection-guided hierarchical learning algorithm for image representation. First, we train a multi-layer deconvolutional network in an unsupervised bottom-up scheme. During the training process, we use each raw image as an input, and decompose an image using multiple alternating layers of non-negative convolutional sparse coding and max-pooling. Inspired from the observation that the filters in top layer can be selectively activated by different high-level structures of images, i.e., one or partial filters should correspond to a particular object class, we update the filters in network by minimizing the reconstruction errors of the corresponding feature maps with respect to certain object detection maps obtained by a set of pre-trained detectors. With the fine-tuned network, we can extract the features of given images in a purely unsupervised way with no need of detectors. We evaluate the proposed feature representation on the task of object recognition, for which an SVM classifier with spatial pyramid matching kernel is used. Experiments on the datasets of PASCAL VOC 2007, Caltech-101 and Caltech-256 demonstrate that our approach outperforms some recent hierarchical feature descriptors as well as classical hand-crafted features. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
This paper studies the mean square consensus of discrete-time linear time-invariant multi-agent systems with communication noises. A distributed consensus protocol, which is composed of the agent's own state feedback and the relative states between the agent and its neighbours, is proposed. A time-varying consensus gain a[k] is applied to attenuate the effect of noises which inherits in the inaccurate measurement of relative states with neighbours. A polynomial, namely 'parameter polynomial', is constructed. And its coefficients are the parameters in the feedback gain vector of the proposed protocol. It turns out that the parameter polynomial plays an important role in guaranteeing the consensus of linear multi-agent systems. By the proposed protocol, necessary and sufficient conditions for mean square consensus are presented under different topology conditions: (1) if the communication topology graph has a spanning tree and every node in the graph has at least one parent node, then the mean square consensus can be achieved if and only if n-ary sumation (infinity)(k = 0)a[k] = infinity, n-ary sumation (infinity)(k = 0)a(2)[k] < infinity and all roots of the parameter polynomial are in the unit circle; (2) if the communication topology graph has a spanning tree and there exits one node without any parent node (the leader-follower case), then the mean square consensus can be achieved if and only if n-ary sumation (infinity)(k = 0)a[k] = infinity, lim(k -> infinity)a[k] = 0 and all roots of the parameter polynomial are in the unit circle; (3) if the communication topology graph does not have a spanning tree, then the mean square consensus can never be achieved. Finally, one simulation example on the multiple aircrafts system is provided to validate the theoretical analysis.
Distributed dynamic average consensus is investigated under quantized communication data. We use a uniform quantizer with constant quantization step-size to deal with the saturation caused by the dynamic consensus error and propose a communication feedback-based distributed consensus protocol suitable for directed time-varying topologies to make the internal state of each agent's encoder consistent with the output of its neighbors' decoder. For the case where the communication topology is directed, balanced and periodically connected, it is shown that if the difference of the reference inputs satisfies some boundedness condition, then the designed quantized dynamic consensus protocol can ensure the states of all the agents achieve dynamic average consensus with arbitrarily small steady state error by properly choosing system parameters. The lower bound of the required quantization levels and the method to choose the system parameters are also presented. Copyright (C) 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Understanding the role of brain regions in anatomical neural networks with Parkinson's disease (PD) is essential for improving the clinical protocol or finding new targets for deep brain stimulation (DBS). Although numerous changes have been reported in local functional studies, few studies have reported on the anatomical network of the entire brain. Here, by developing a series of algorithms, this study provided a whole anatomical neural network of the macaque monkey. Then, the drifts in centrality from normal to PD networks were described in terms of complex network analysis and summarized with principal component analysis. Results revealed that the areas including the striatum, globus pallidus, amygdala, prefrontal lobe, thalamus, hippocampus, visual cortex, insula, etc., showed relatively notable drifts in their own patterns. The present study also demonstrated that the current targets of DBS shared a common feature: their centrality values being relatively low in the normal brain while intensely drifting with PD. (C) 2015 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A key factor contributing to the success of many auto-encoders based deep learning techniques is the implicit consideration of the underlying data manifold in their training criteria. In this paper, we aim to make this consideration more explicit by training auto-encoders completely from the manifold learning perspective. We propose a novel unsupervised manifold learning method termed Laplacian Auto-Encoders (LAEs). Starting from a general regularized function learning framework, LAE regularizes training of auto-encoders so that the learned encoding function has the locality-preserving property for data points on the manifold. By exploiting the analog relation between the graph Laplacian and the Laplace-Beltrami operator on the continuous manifold, we derive discrete approximations of the first- and higher-order auto-encoder regularizers that can be applied in practical scenarios, where only data points sampled from the distribution on the manifold are available. Our proposed LAE has potentially better generalization capability, due to its explicit respect of the underlying data manifold. Extensive experiments on benchmark visual classification datasets show that LAE consistently outperforms alternative auto-encoders recently proposed in deep learning literature, especially when training samples are relatively scarce: (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper considers a decentralized fault tolerant control (DFTC) scheme for reconfigurable manipulators. With the appearance of norm-bounded failure, a dual closed-loop trajectory tracking control algorithm is proposed on the basis of the Lyapunov stability theory. Characterized by the modularization property, the actuator failure is estimated by the proposed decentralized sliding mode observer (DSMO). Moreover, the actuator failure can be treated in view of the local joint information, so its control performance degradation is independent of other normal joints. In addition, the presented DFTC scheme is significantly simplified in terms of the structure of the controller due to its dual closed-loop architecture, and its feasibility is highly reflected in the control of reconfigurable manipulators. Finally, the effectiveness of the proposed DFTC scheme is demonstrated using simulations.
Antigravity transportation of water, which is often observed in nature, is becoming a vital demand for advanced devices and new technology. Many studies have been devoted to the motion of a single droplet on a horizontal or inclined substrate under specific assistance. However, the self-propelled water motion, especially continuous antigravity water delivery, still remains a considerable challenge. Here, a novel self-ascending phenomenon driven only by the surface energy release of water droplets is found, and a superhydrophobic mesh to pump water up to a height of centimeter scale is designed. An integrated antigravity transportation system is also demonstrated to continuously and spontaneously pump water droplets without additional driving forces. The present novel finding and integrated devices should serve as a source of inspiration for the design of advanced materials and for the development of new technology with exciting applications in microfluidics, microdetectors, and intelligent systems.
Currently, the common methods for image retrieval are content-based, while the abilities of image feature representation of these methods are very limited. In this paper, a new image retrieval method for binary images based on Deep Belief Networks (DBN) and Softmax classifier is proposed, which classifies the image data-set into some categories with the DBN and Softmax classifier first, and then classifies the query image in the same way, and those images in the same category will be returned as the similar images of the query image. Unlike the existing image retrieval models, the new method aims to provide a more effective representation and extraction measure by simulating the architecture of human visual system, and it is not necessary to set the threshold manually for this method like most of the existing methods based on the hamming distance computation. Experimental results show that the proposed method can get better recall and precision than some existing methods, such as perceptual hash algorithm and shape-based algorithm.
Autonomous underwater robots have more outstanding benefits than research ships for benthonic detection. A key problem is how to better use the detection senor on the robot, such as the multi-beam sonar. However, the application method for multi-beam sonar on the underwater robot has not been introduced in detail until now. The techniques for the application of detection equipment are discussed and studied, and the main contents include interface, installation, acoustic synchronization, system error amending, and survey line design. The fine topographic maps were obtained from the multi-beam sonar on the robot. The trials show the validity of the proposed techniques.
The adaptive extended set-membership filter (AESMF) algorithm for robots' online modelling is today proposed for use in this field. Compared to the traditional ESMF, this novel filter method improves estimation accuracy under variable boundaries of unknown but bounded (UBB) process noise, which is often caused by the uncertainties of robotic dynamics. However, the applicability and stability of the AESMF method have not been tested in detail or demonstrated for real robotic systems. In this research, AESMF is applied for the actuator fault detections of a rotor-craft unmanned air vehicle (RUAV). The stability of AESMF is firstly analysed using mathematics and actuator healthy coefficients (AHC) are introduced for building the actuator failure model of RUAVs. AESMF is employed for the online boundary estimation of flight states and AHC parameters for fault tolerance control. Based on the proposed AESMF actuator fault estimation, flight experiments are conducted using a ServoHeli-40 RUAV platform and the flight results are compared with traditional ESMF and the adaptive extended Kalman filter (AEKF) in order to demonstrate its effectiveness, as well as for suggesting improvements for the actuator failure detection of RUAVs.
The mass sensing superiority of a micro-/nano-mechanical resonator sensor over conventional mass spectrometry has been, or at least is being firmly established. Because the sensing mechanism of a mechanical resonator sensor is the shifts of resonant frequencies, how to link the shifts of resonant frequencies with the material properties of an analyte formulates an inverse problem. Besides the analyte/adsorbate mass, many other factors, such as position and axial force, can also cause the shifts of resonant frequencies. The in situ measurement of the adsorbate position and axial force is extremely difficult if not impossible, especially when an adsorbate is as small as a molecule or an atom. Extra instruments are also required. In this study, an inverse problem of using three resonant frequencies to determine the mass, position and axial force is formulated and solved. The accuracy of the inverse problem solving method is demonstrated, and how the method can be used in the real application of a nanomechanical resonator is also discussed. Solving the inverse problem is helpful to the development and application of a mechanical resonator sensor for two reasons: reducing extra experimental equipment and achieving better mass sensing by considering more factors.
Using traditional single-layer dictionary learning methods, it is difficult to reveal the complex structures hidden in the hyperspectral images. Motivated by deep learning technique, a deep dictionary learning approach is proposed for hyperspectral image denoising, which consists of hierarchical dictionary learning, feature denoising and fine-tuning. Hierarchical dictionary learning is helpful for uncovering the hidden factors in the spectral dimension, and fine-tuning is beneficial for preserving the spectral structure. Experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
We present a new roadmap based on a generalized Voronoi graph (GVG) for two-identical-link (L-2) robots to explore an unknown planar environment. It is called the L-2 hierarchical generalized Voronoi graph (L-2-HGVG). The L-2 robot is formed by two equal length rods and a revolute joint between them. The configuration of the robot possesses four degree-of-freedom, two for position and two for orientation, and hence the roadmap is one-dimensional in an unknown configuration space R-2 x T-2. L-2-HGVG is defined in terms of workspace distance measurements using only sensor information without prior knowledge of the environment, with the robot having the maximum distance from obstacles, and is therefore optimum in a point of view for exploration and obstacle avoidance.
Compared to single arm robot system, dual arm robot has the ability of performing human-like dexterity and cooperation. Dual arm cooperative operation has attracted more and more attention in industrial applications, such as in assembly of complex parts, manufacturing tasks and handling objects. A unified dynamic control method, which is divided into three modes, namely, independent mode, dependent mode, and half dependent mode, is proposed for a redundant dual arm robot with focus on the movement and force of the desired task being operated. Attention is devoted to develop a unified formulation of the above three modes. In addition, a closed form of inverse kinematic solution instead of numerical integration approach is proposed with the aim to guarantee position accuracy. Different from traditional dynamic controllers, where the independent redundancy resolution is obtained based on particular velocity or acceleration levels, here the two dynamic controllers are improved by combining a closed form of inverse kinematic solution with velocity and acceleration levels. Furthermore, the theoretical results of the proposed control method are validated by simulations and experiments.
Artificial electronic skin consists of mechanically fl exible and stretchable sensor networks that can accommodate irregular surfaces and spatially map/quantify various stimuli, such as strains, pressures, and temperatures to imitate the human somatosensory system. Here, a fl exible/wearable multifunctional sensor array is designed and fabricated in a cost-effective manner through simple fabrication procedures for highly-sensitive contact/pressure/strain detections. Composed of PET-based Ag serpentine-shaped electrodes, the sensor array is implemented for static and dynamic mapping of spatial contact/pressure/strain distributions in large-scale, with a detection limit of 6 Pa (corresponding to 0.5 mg). By attaching the flexible/wearable devices on human body, different motions are recognized/distinguished for gesture control applications. Combining the easy-fabricated and low-cost features, these sensor arrays may become promising candidate for highly-sensitive force detections, gesture controls, imaging of spatial pressure distributions, and find potential applications in advanced robotics, human-machine interfaces, next-generation prosthetics and healthcare monitoring devices.
In this paper, the containment control problem of continuous-time linear multi-agent systems is investigated. An aperiodic sampled-data based protocol is induced by using neighboring information with uncertainly time-varying sampling intervals. By utilizing the proposed protocol and properties of Laplacian matrix, the containment control problem of continuous-time linear multi-agent systems is equivalently transformed into a stability problem of discrete-time linear systems. The stability analysis is based on the robustness of related discrete-time systems against perturbation caused by the variation of sampling intervals. By using small-gain theorem, sufficient conditions are obtained to guarantee the stability of uncertain discrete-time systems. Furthermore, two special cases are given to illustrate the method proposed in this paper. The theoretical results are verified by some simulations. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
It is well known that multi-agent systems (MASs) are ubiquitous in natural and artificial systems. This paper aims at bridging the gap between transmission noise and sampled data for robust consensus of MASs. In detail, we have developed a theoretical framework for analyzing the robust consensus of MASs with sampled-data controllers and transmission noises. Using the delay-input and discretization approaches, we obtain two sufficient conditions on the existence of sampling periods and controller parameters for robust consensus of MASs, respectively. In particular, we deduce the estimates of the convergence speeds of consensus errors for the above two methods. Finally, numerical simulations are also given to validate our theoretical results.
The design of stabilizing controller for uncertain nonlinear systems with control constraints is a challenging problem. The constrained-input coupled with the inability to identify accurately the uncertainties motivates the design of stabilizing controller based on reinforcement-learning (RL) methods. In this paper, a novel RL-based robust adaptive control algorithm is developed for a class of continuous-time uncertain nonlinear systems subject to input constraints. The robust control problem is converted to the constrained optimal control problem with appropriately selecting value functions for the nominal system. Distinct from typical action-critic dual networks employed in RL, only one critic neural network (NN) is constructed to derive the approximate optimal control. Meanwhile, unlike initial stabilizing control often indispensable in RL, there is no special requirement imposed on the initial control. By utilizing Lyapunov's direct method, the closed-loop optimal control system and the estimated weights of the critic NN are proved to be uniformly ultimately bounded. In addition, the derived approximate optimal control is verified to guarantee the uncertain nonlinear system to be stable in the sense of uniform ultimate boundedness. Two simulation examples are provided to illustrate the effectiveness and applicability of the present approach.
Large-scale behavioral simulations are widely used to study real-world multi-agent systems. Such programs normally run in discrete time-steps or ticks, with simulated space decomposed into domains that are distributed over a set of workers to achieve parallelism. A distinguishing feature of behavioral simulations is their frequent and high-volume group migration, the phenomenon in which simulated objects traverse domains in groups at massive scale in each tick. This results in continual and significant load imbalance among domains. To tackle this problem, traditional load balancing approaches either require excessive load re-profiling and redistribution, which lead to high computation/communication costs, or perform poorly because their statically partitioned data domains cannot reflect load changes brought by group migration. In this paper, we propose an effective and low-cost load balancing scheme, named Inc-part, based on a key observation that an object is unlikely to move a long distance (across many domains) within a single tick. This localized mobility property allows one to efficiently estimate the load of a dynamic domain incrementally, based on merely the load changes occurring in its neighborhood. The domains experiencing significant load changes are then partitioned or merged, and redistributed to redress load imbalance among the workers. Experiments on a 64-node (1,024-core) platform show that Inc-part can attain excellent load balance with dramatically lowered costs compared to state-of-the-art solutions.
How to build a suitable image representation remains a critical problem in computer vision. Traditional Bag-of-Feature (BoF) based models build image representation by the pipeline of local feature extraction, feature coding and spatial pooling. However, three major shortcomings hinder the performance, i.e., the limitation of hand-designed features, the discrimination loss in local appearance coding and the lack of spatial information. To overcome the above limitations, in this paper, we propose a generalized BoF-based framework, which is hierarchically learned by exploring recently developed deep learning methods. First, with raw images as input, we densely extract local patches and learn local features by stacked Independent Subspace Analysis network. The learned features are then transformed to appearance codes by sparse Restricted Boltzmann Machines. Second, we perform spatial max-pooling on a set of over-complete spatial regions, which is generated by covering various spatial distributions, to incorporate more flexible spatial information. Third, a structured sparse Auto-encoder is proposed to explore the region representations into the image-level signature. To learn the proposed hierarchy, we layerwise pre-train the network in unsupervised manner, followed by supervised fine-tuning with image labels. Extensive experiments on different benchmarks, i.e., UIUC-Sports, Caltech-101, Caltech-256, Scene-15 and MIT Indoor-67, demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed model. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
A new airborne platform named the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) is used to detect the geomagnetic anomaly with low magnetic interference. Nevertheless, there are steering errors of three-axis fluxgate magnetometers (TFMs) with the changes of UAV flight course. The main reasons are due to the effects of nonorthogonality, scale factors, and zero shifts. Therefore, it is quite necessary to establish calibration methods to get magnetic information of high precision. The methods of least squares (LS) and backpropagation artificial neural network (BPANN) are proposed to correct the system errors of measured data in this paper. The results show that the errors are suppressed using LS and BPANN methods. The measured errors of geomagnetic field decrease obviously after calibration. Furthermore, the BPANN method is more effective to calibrate the data error of TFMs than LS method when UAV changes its flight direction. Moreover, the spatial distributions of magnetic fields for TFMs after calibration using LS and BPANN methods are quite consistent with the distributions for optical pump magnetometers. This paper can provide a better way to improve the performance of TFMs and be widely used in the data error calibration of multiaxis sensors.
The urgent problem of impulsive moments which cannot be determined in advance brings new challenges beyond the conventional impulsive systems theory. In order to solve this problem, the novel concept of impulsive time window is proposed in this paper. And the stability problem of stochastic fuzzy uncertain delayed neural networks with impulsive time window is investigated. By combining the discretized Lyapunov function approach with mathematical induction method, several novel and easy-to-check sufficient conditions concerning the impulsive time window are derived to ensure that the model considered here is exponentially stable in mean square. Numerical simulations are presented to further demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed stability criterion. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Soil salinization is a major desertification process that threatens especially the stability of arid ecosystems. There is an urgent need for intensive monitoring and quick assessment of salinization through remote sensing as a tool for combating desertification in such ecosystems. Recent researches have revealed that in order to retrieve soil salt contents accurately from hyperspectral reflectance, a pre-knowledge of salt types is required, which greatly outlines the spectral features of saline soil reflectance. In this study, a set of feature parameters have been developed after a thorough investigation of spectral responses to different soil salt types and salt contents for quick and accurate classification of soil salt types. The application has been validated using three independent datasets composed from: laboratory experiments (dataset I), insitu field measurements (dataset II), and satellite-borne Hyperion image (dataset III). For comparison, four other common classification algorithms have been validated using the same datasets. The results showed that the new approach proposed in this study performed well with not only single-type but also multipletype salts for which the four common algorithms performed rather fairly. Furthermore, validating using datasets II and III showed that the newly proposed approach had a stable performance while the other four failed, indicating the advantage of the new approach. The feature parameters developed in this study hence provide a novel and efficient approach for salt type classification from reflectance spectra, and we foresee its potential applications on large-scale soil salt type mapping towards better understanding soil salinity characterization from remote sensing data. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Ultraviolet radiation (UV) observed at Fukang (FK), China from 2004 to 2012 was used to investigate UV variability and its relationship with global solar radiation (G) under various sky conditions in Northwest China. Clearness index (K-t) was used for characterizing the sky conditions and UV model development, it was discovered that clear skies were the dominated sky conditions (48.72%), followed by partly cloudy (32.56%) and overcast (18.72%) skies. Daily F-UV (fraction of UV to G) increased from November to June with an annual mean of 4.00% at FK. Meanwhile, an efficient all-sky UV model under any sky conditions has been proposed by investigating the dependence of hourly UV irradiations on K-t and cosine of solar zenith angle mu. The model was assessed through the statistical indices: mean bias error (MBE), mean absolute bias error (MABE) and root mean square error (RMSE) whose values were 1.27 (-0.24), 4.64 (4.56) and 6.26% (6.14%), respectively at hourly (daily) basis. The model has also been tested at three other sites with distinctly different climates in China. Finally, daily UV radiation during 1961-2012 in Northwest China was reconstructed and annual mean daily UV irradiation was about 0.603 MJ m(-2) d(-1). UV decreased at 0.62 KJ m(-2) d(-1)decade(-1) during the whole study period and the decreases were sharpest in spring (3.28 KJm(-2) d(-1)decade(-1)), however, there was an increasing trend at the rate of 2.16 KJm(-2) d(-1)year(-1) since 1991.
Bilateral controlled master-slave robot system is an important intermediary to realise remote haptic sensing. This study proposes a sliding-mode assist disturbance observer (SMADO) to detect force information in wider bandwidth without force sensors by making use of the fast switching of sliding-mode control values. Moreover, a bilateral control law is proposed based on the SMADO. The proposal tolerates the presence of disturbances and uncertainties in the robots. The influence of these factors is degraded by using the net forces to design the bilateral control rather than employing a robust compensation. This design shows such a feasibility that high performance haptic sensing can be achieved using the SMADO as a wide bandwidth force detector without any robust compensators. The validity of the proposal is confirmed by experiments in practice. The proposal realises the position tracking and action-reaction law between the two robots, which makes the operator vividly feel the remote object.
Models are proved to be effective instrument for algae bloom prediction and management. The commonly available prediction models are physically based numerical approach or data-driven approach. However, these models are sometimes restricted by the lack of an explicit representation function or by insufficient data. The present research aimed to develop forecasting models that provide early warning on cyanobacteria outbreaks, as well as understand the ecological thresholds and relationships that determine such events, by means of evolutionary computation. The Lake Taihu, which has been suffering from severe cyanobacteria blooms over the last decades due to eutrophication, was taken as study case. Two modelling approaches were used based on water quality data collected from 31 monitoring sites from 2008 to 2012. First, eight sampling sites representing spatially different environmental conditions across Lake Taihu were selected to develop 2-day ahead forecasting models. The resulting models well-matched the timing and magnitude of the observed cyanobacteria dynamics for all eight sites, which was reflected by coefficients of determination (r(2)) of 0.62 for eastern site 24 being least favourable to cyanobacteria growth and 0.83 for north-western site 6 being most favourable. The sensitivity analyses revealed inhibitory relationships with nitrate at water temperatures greater than 18 degrees C and excitatory relationships with phosphate at lower water temperatures for most sites, which suggested N-limitation of the lake existed locally in summer and autumn. Second, the aggregated data from all 31 sites were used to develop a generic 2-day ahead forecasting model. When compared with the observed cyanobacteria data of the eight selected sampling sites, the generic model achieved slightly lower coefficients of determination than the site-specific models, with the lowest r(2) value for site 24 (0.36) and the highest r(2) value for site 6 (0.77). The sensitivity analysis for the generic model revealed a much lower water temperature threshold of 13.01 degrees C, above which N-limitation for cyanobacteria growth was indicated. Overall, both the spatially-explicit models and the generic model were suitable for early warning of cyanobacteria blooms at most sampling sites, and specified understanding on the environmental conditions that favour cyanobacteria growth across Lake Taihu. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
To examine the effect of nitrogen (N) fertilization on forest carbon (C) sequestration and water loss, we used an artificial neural network model to estimate C fluxes and evapotranspiration (ET) in response to N fertilization during four post-fertilization years in a Pacific Northwest chronosequence of three Douglas-fir stands aged 61, 22 and 10 years old in 2010 (DF49, HDF88 and HDF00, respectively). Results showed that N fertilization increased gross primary productivity (GPP) for all three sites in all four years with the largest absolute increase at HDF00 followed by HDF88. Ecosystem respiration increased in all four years at HDF00, but decreased over the last three years at HDF88 and over all four years at DF49. As a result, fertilization increased the net ecosystem productivity of all three stands with the largest increase at HDF88, followed by DF49. Fertilization had no discernible effect on ET in any of the stands. Consequently, fertilization increased water use efficiency (WUE) in all four post-fertilization years at all three sites and also increased light use efficiency (LUE) of all the stands, especially HDF00. Our results suggest that the effects of fertilization on forest C sequestration and water loss may be associated with stand age and fertilization; the two younger stands appeared to be more efficient than the older stand with respect to GPP, WUE and LUE.
This paper examines the spatial error structures of eight precipitation estimates derived from four different satellite retrieval algorithms including TRMM Multi-satellite Precipitation Analysis (TMPA), Climate Prediction Center morphing technique (CMORPH), Global Satellite Mapping of Precipitation (GSMaP) and Precipitation Estimation from Remotely Sensed Information using Artificial Neural Networks (PERSIANN). All the original satellite and bias-corrected products of each algorithm (3B42RTV7 and 3B42V7, CMORPH_RAW and CMORPH_CRT, GSMaP_MVK and GSMaP_Gauge, PERSIANN_RAW and PERSIANN_CDR) are evaluated against ground-based Asian Precipitation-Highly Resolved Observational Data Integration Towards Evaluation of Water Resources (APHRODITE) over Central Asia for the period of 2004 to 2006. The analyses show that all products except PERSIANN exhibit overestimation over Aral Sea and its surrounding areas. The bias-correction improves the quality of the original satellite TMPA products and GSMaP significantly but slightly in CMORPH and PERSIANN over Central Asia. 3B42RTV7 overestimates precipitation significantly with large Relative Bias (RB) (128.17%) while GSMaP_Gauge shows consistent high correlation coefficient (CC) (>0.8) but RB fluctuates between -57.95% and 112.63%. The PERSIANN_CDR outperforms other products in winter with the highest CC (0.67). Both the satellite-only and gauge adjusted products have particularly poor performance in detecting rainfall events in terms of lower POD (less than 65%), CSI (less than 45%) and relatively high FAR (more than 35%).
Machine-learning tasks are becoming pervasive in a broad range of domains, and in a broad range of systems (from embedded systems to data centers). At the same time, a small set of machine-learning algorithms (especially Convolutional and Deep Neural Networks, i.e., CNNs and DNNs) are proving to be state-of-the-art across many applications. As architectures evolve toward heterogeneous multicores composed of a mix of cores and accelerators, a machine-learning accelerator can achieve the rare combination of efficiency (due to the small number of target algorithms) and broad application scope.
This paper presents the design and fabrication of a new type of Biomimetic Underwater Vehicle (BUV) inspired by cuttlefish: the RobCutt-I. The Rob Cutt-I has good maneuverability and can perform multiple motion modes, especially submerging or surfacing vertically in the water. A course controller and a depth controller for the RobCutt-I were proposed based on the Active Disturbance Rejection Control (ADRC) technique. Experiments conducted on the RobCutt-I prototype validated the feasibility and effectiveness of the mechanism and control system. Simulations and experiments conducted on the Rob Cutt-I prototype showed that both the course controller and depth controller give better performance than the PID controller.
This paper proposes a neural network (NN)-based approach to solve the forward kinematics of a 3-RRR spherical parallel mechanism designed for a haptic device. The proposed algorithm aims to remarkably speed up computation to meet the requirement of highfrequency rendering for haptic display. To achieve high accuracy, the workspace of the haptic device is divided into smaller subspaces. The proposed algorithm contains NNs of two different precision levels: a rough estimation NN to identify the index of the subspace and several precise estimation networks with expected accuracy to calculate the forward kinematics. For continuous motion, the algorithm structure is further simplified to save internal memory and increase computing speed, which are critical for a haptic device control system running on an embedded platform. Compared with the mostly used Newton-Raphson method, the proposed algorithm and its simplified version greatly increase the calculation speed by about four times and 10 times, respectively, while achieving the same accuracy level. The proposed approach is of great significance for solving the forward kinematics of parallel mechanism used as haptic devices when high update frequency is needed but hardware resources are limited.
The asymptotical synchronization problem is investigated for two identical chaotic Lur'e systems with time delays. The sampled-data control method is employed for the system design. A new synchronization condition is proposed in the form of linear matrix inequalities. The error system is shown to be asymptotically stable with the constructed new piecewise differentiable Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional (LKF). Different from the existing work, the new LKF makes full use of the information in the nonlinear part of the system. The obtained stability condition is less conservative than some of the existing ones. A longer sampling period is achieved with the new method. The numerical examples are given and the simulations are performed on Chua's circuit. The results show the superiorities and effectiveness of the proposed control method.
This paper investigates how to blindly evaluate the visual quality of an image by learning rules from linguistic descriptions. Extensive psychological evidence shows that humans prefer to conduct evaluations qualitatively rather than numerically. The qualitative evaluations are then converted into the numerical scores to fairly benchmark objective image quality assessment (IQA) metrics. Recently, lots of learning-based IQA models are proposed by analyzing the mapping from the images to numerical ratings. However, the learnt mapping can hardly be accurate enough because some information has been lost in such an irreversible conversion from the linguistic descriptions to numerical scores. In this paper, we propose a blind IQA model, which learns qualitative evaluations directly and outputs numerical scores for general utilization and fair comparison. Images are represented by natural scene statistics features. A discriminative deep model is trained to classify the features into five grades, corresponding to five explicit mental concepts, i.e., excellent, good, fair, poor, and bad. A newly designed quality pooling is then applied to convert the qualitative labels into scores. The classification framework is not only much more natural than the regression-based models, but also robust to the small sample size problem. Thorough experiments are conducted on popular databases to verify the model's effectiveness, efficiency, and robustness.
In this paper, we establish error bounds of adaptive dynamic programming algorithms for solving undiscounted infinite-horizon optimal control problems of discrete-time deterministic nonlinear systems. We consider approximation errors in the update equations of both value function and control policy. We utilize a new assumption instead of the contraction assumption in discounted optimal control problems. We establish the error bounds for approximate value iteration based on a new error condition. Furthermore, we also establish the error bounds for approximate policy iteration and approximate optimistic policy iteration algorithms. It is shown that the iterative approximate value function can converge to a finite neighborhood of the optimal value function under some conditions. To implement the developed algorithms, critic and action neural networks are used to approximate the value function and control policy, respectively. Finally, a simulation example is given to demonstrate the effectiveness of the developed algorithms.
Extreme learning machine (ELM) is a new learning algorithm for the single hidden layer feedforward neural networks. Compared with the conventional neural network learning algorithm it overcomes the slow training speed and over-fitting problems. ELM is based on empirical risk minimization theory and its learning process needs only a single iteration. The algorithm avoids multiple iterations and local minimization. It has been used in various fields and applications because of better generalization ability, robustness, and controllability and fast learning rate. In this paper, we make a review of ELM latest research progress about the algorithms, theory and applications. It first analyzes the theory and the algorithm ideas of ELM, then tracking describes the latest progress of ELM in recent years, including the model and specific applications of ELM, finally points out the research and development prospects of ELM in the future.
Feature representation learning is an important and fundamental task in multimedia and pattern recognition research. In this paper, we propose a novel framework to explore the hierarchical structure inside the images from the perspective of feature representation learning, which is applied to hierarchical image annotation. Different from the current trend in multimedia analysis of using pre-defined features or focusing on the end-task "flat" representation, we propose a novel layer-wise tag-embedded deep learning (LTDL) model to learn hierarchical features which correspond to hierarchical semantic structures in the tag hierarchy. Unlike most existing deep learning models, LTDL utilizes both the visual content of the image and the hierarchical information of associated social tags. In the training stage, the two kinds of information are fused in a bottom-up way. Supervised training and multi-modal fusion alternate in a layer-wise way to learn feature hierarchies. To validate the effectiveness of LTDL, we conduct extensive experiments for hierarchical image annotation on a large-scale public dataset. Experimental results show that the proposed LTDL can learn representative features with improved performances.
As human society has entered the century of the city, studies of urban ecosystems have shown a booming increase since the beginning of the 21st century. Urban ecology aims to fully understand the problems and find the solutions to sustainability challenges of an increasingly urbanized planet. As typical representatives of developed and developing nations, the U.S. and China are experiencing different urbanization processes. Yet the development of scientific investigations in the field of urban ecology in the two countries seems to have reached the same goal by different means. We compare the development of urban ecology in the U.S. and China in terms of related disciplines, main research fields, and hot topics. In general, American urban ecology connects tightly to a basic ecology research paradigm and trans-disciplinary study, while Chinese urban ecology emphasizes practical problem-solving but lacks sufficient theoretical and technical support. In the end, four key differences between American cities and Chinese cities are discussed, including urbanization stage, urban boundary and population, urban form and landscape, and urban metabolism and management. These differences present both challenges and opportunities for collaboration in urban ecological studies between U.S. and China. The collaboration between urban ecologists of the U.S. and China will contribute not only to the two countries' cities but also to cities from both developed and developing countries.
Novelty and appropriateness have been recognized as the fundamental features of creative thinking. However, the brain mechanisms underlying these features remain largely unknown. In this study, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to dissociate these mechanisms in a revised creative chunk decomposition task in which participants were required to perform different types of chunk decomposition that systematically varied in novelty and appropriateness. We found that novelty processing involved functional areas for procedural memory (caudate), mental rewarding (substantia nigra, SN), and visual-spatial processing, whereas appropriateness processing was mediated by areas for declarative memory (hippocampus), emotional arousal (amygdala), and orthography recognition. These results indicate that non-declarative and declarative memory systems may jointly contribute to the two fundamental features of creative thinking. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Semantic information can help robots understand unknown environments better. In order to obtain semantic information efficiently and link it to a metric map, we present a new robot semantic mapping approach through human activity recognition in a human-robot coexisting environment. An intelligent mobile robot platform called ASCCbot creates a metric map while wearable motion sensors attached to the human body are used to recognize human activities. Combining pre-learned models of activity-furniture correlation and location-furniture correlation, the robot determines the probability distribution of the furniture types through a Bayesian framework and labels them on the metric map. Computer simulations and real experiments demonstrate that the proposed approach is able to create a semantic map of an indoor environment effectively. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper investigates the global mu-stability for impulsive cellular neural networks with reaction-diffusion terms and mixed delays, where mixed delays consist of unbounded time-varying delays and bounded continuously distributed delays. The model under consideration is more general than those investigated in most existing literature. By establishing a novel Lyapunov-Krasovskii functional and employing the delay differential inequality with impulsive initial conditions, boundary conditions and LMI, we obtain two concise and sufficient conditions ensuring global mu-stability of the impulsive reaction-diffusion cellular neural networks with mixed delays. The newly obtained criteria are concerned with the reaction-diffusion coefficients and the regional feature. However, they are independent of boundaries of variable time delays. Several corollaries are also presented. Finally, three concrete numerical examples are given to demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of our main results. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In order to improve the precision and diversity of individual neural networks to improve the performance of neural network ensemble (NNE), this paper proposes a method of generating individual neural networks for ensembling based on twice clustering. By varying the network training data, enabling the samples to reflect the real data distribution, increasing the diversity between the training data to increase the diversity between the networks, thus improving the performance of NNE. First, using k-fold cross validation method to divide the original dataset. k-Fold cross validation, which learning samples from multiple directions, can effectively avoid falling into local minimum value. Because both the training and validation samples are as far as possible to participate in the learning, one can get satisfactory effect of learning. Secondly, choosing all the training samples to cluster for the first time to form once clustering subclasses, and then performing the twice clustering for each subclass to form the sample subsets of each subclass. Through affinity propagation (AP) clustering makes the otherness criterion of "similar in classes, different between classes" maximize, the samples in the class can reflect the real data distribution. Finally, according to the permutation and combination, selecting a subset from each twice clustering of each subclass to construct a training set. So the individual neural networks are generated with the bigger diversity, the smaller size of the training data and the training data can also reflect the real data distribution, and the ensemble of these individual neural networks can get better performance. Simulation experiments on nine datasets show that our proposed method here is effective. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
The Tarim River Basin is a special endorheic arid drainage basin in Central Asia, characterized by limited rainfall and high evaporation as common in deserts, while water is supplied mainly by glacier and snow melt from the surrounding mountains. The existing drought indices can hardly capture the drought features in this region as droughts are caused by two dominant factors (meteorological and hydrological conditions). To overcome the problem, a new hybrid drought index (HDI), integrating the meteorological and hydrological drought regimes, was developed and tested in the basin in the work. The index succeeded in revealing the drought characteristics and the ensemble influence better than the single standardized precipitation index or the hydrological index. The Artificial Neural Network approach based on temperature and precipitation observations was set up to simulate the HDI change. The method enabled constructing scenarios of future droughts in the region using climate simulation of the GCMs under four RCP scenarios from the latest CMIP5 project. The simulations in the study have shown that the water budget patterns in the Tarim River Basin are more sensitive to temperature than to precipitation. Dominated by temperature rise causing an accelerating snow/glacier melt, the frequency of drought months is projected to decrease by about 14% in the next decades (until 2035). The drought duration is expected to be shortened to 3months on average, with the severity alleviated. However, the region would still suffer more severe droughts with a high intensity in some years. The general decrease in drought frequency and intensity over the region in the future would be beneficial for water resources management and agriculture development in the oases. Copyright (c) 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.
Differences in how writing systems represent language raise important questions about whether there could be a universal functional architecture for reading across languages. In order to study potential language differences in the neural networks that support reading skill, we collected fMRI data from readers of alphabetic (English) and morpho-syllabic (Chinese) writing systems during two reading tasks. In one, participants read short stories under conditions that approximate natural reading, and in the other, participants decided whether individual stimuli were real words or not. Prior work comparing these two writing systems has overwhelmingly used meta-linguistic tasks, generally supporting the conclusion that the reading system is organized differently for skilled readers of Chinese and English. We observed that language differences in the reading network were greatly dependent on task. In lexical decision, a pattern consistent with prior research was observed in which the Middle Frontal Gyrus (MFG) and right Fusiform Gyrus (rFFG) were more active for Chinese than for English, whereas the posterior temporal sulcus was more active for English than for Chinese. We found a very different pattern of language effects in a naturalistic reading paradigm, during which significant differences were only observed in visual regions not typically considered specific to the reading network, and the middle temporal gyrus, which is thought to be important for direct mapping of orthography to semantics. Indeed, in areas that are often discussed as supporting distinct cognitive or linguistic functions between the two languages, we observed interaction. Specifically, language differences were most pronounced in MFG and rFFG during the lexical decision task, whereas no language differences were observed in these areas during silent reading of text for comprehension.
In this paper, a novel adaptive dynamic programming (ADP) algorithm is developed to solve the nearly optimal finite-horizon control problem for a class of deterministic nonaffine nonlinear time-delay systems. The idea is to use ADP technique to obtain the nearly optimal control which makes the optimal performance index function close to the greatest lower bound of all performance index functions within finite time. The proposed algorithm contains two cases with respective different initial iterations. In the first case, there exists control policy which makes arbitrary state of the system reach to zero in one time step. In the second case, there exists a control sequence which makes the system reach to zero in multiple time steps. The state updating is used to determine the optimal state. Convergence analysis of the performance index function is given. Furthermore, the relationship between the iteration steps and the length of the control sequence is presented. Two neural networks are used to approximate the performance index function and compute the optimal control policy for facilitating the implementation of ADP iteration algorithm. At last, two examples are used to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed ADP iteration algorithm. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
A functional tactile sensing device is essential for next-generation robotics and human-machine interfaces technologies, since the emulation of touching requires large-scale pressure sensor arrays with distinguishable spatial-resolution, high sensitivity, and fast response. Here, a flexible LED array composed of PEDOT:PSS and patterned ZnO NWs with a spatial resolution of 7 mu m for mapping of spatial pressure distributions is designed and fabricated. The emission intensity of the LED array sensor matrix is dominated by locally applied strains as indicated by the piezo-phototronic effect. Therefore, spatial pressure distributions are immediately obtained by parallel-reading the illumination intensities of the LED arrays based on an electroluminescence working mechanism. A wide range of pressure measurements from 40 to 100 MPa are achieved through controlling the growth conditions of the ZnO nanowire array. These devices may find prospective applications as electronic skins by taking advantage of their high spatial-resolution, flexibility, and wide pressure mapping range.
Neural networks are considered the origin of intelligence in organisms. In this paper, a new design of an intelligent system merging biological intelligence with artificial intelligence was created. It was based on a neural controller bidirectionally connected to an actual mobile robot to implement a novel vehicle. Two types of experimental preparations were utilized as the neural controller including 'random' and '4Q' (cultured neurons artificially divided into four interconnected parts) neural network. Compared to the random cultures, the '4Q' cultures presented absolutely different activities, and the robot controlled by the '4Q' network presented better capabilities in search tasks. Our results showed that neural cultures could be successfully employed to control an artificial agent; the robot performed better and better with the stimulus because of the short-term plasticity. A new framework is provided to investigate the bidirectional biological-artificial interface and develop new strategies for a future intelligent system using these simplified model systems.
In this paper, we consider two-group leader escort control for multi-agent systems, where the agents are separated into two groups to escort an active leader with the same distance. To escort the moving leader, we propose different distributed controls for different cases: the bounded-leader case and the schedule-based general leader case (under either known or unknown time-varying parameter rotation-schedule). Because some agents may not get access to the leader directly, we construct the distributed controllers to escort the leader by moving symmetrically around the leader under either fixed or switching topologies, based on a distributed observer for each agent to estimate the leader's state. With the help of graph theory and Lyapunov function technique, we prove that the leader escort can be achieved asymptotically by theoretical analysis. Finally, simulation results demonstrate good performance of the proposed protocols.
THE AUTHORS DESIGNED AN ACCELERATOR ARCHITECTURE FOR LARGE-SCALE NEURAL NETWORKS, WITH AN EMPHASIS ON THE IMPACT OF MEMORY ON ACCELERATOR DESIGN, PERFORMANCE, AND ENERGY. IN THIS ARTICLE, THEY PRESENT A CONCRETE DESIGN AT 65 NM THAT CAN PERFORM 496 16-BIT FIXED-POINT OPERATIONS IN PARALLEL EVERY 1.02 NS, THAT IS, 452 GOP/S, IN A 3.02MM(2), 485-MW FOOTPRINT (EXCLUDING MAIN MEMORY ACCESSES).
Conventional rigid machines, even biological systems in nature, generally do not own the capabilities like autonomous convergence or divergence. Here, such extraordinary behavior was demonstrated for the first time with the liquid metal vehicle. This synthetic soft machine fueled with an aluminum flake could initiate its autonomous locomotion in an open-top circular channel containing NaOH solution, like a running vehicle. If cutting a large machine into several smaller separately running vehicles, each of them still resumes its traveling state along the original track and chases each other. If the volumes of such dispersive vehicles were close to each other and they were all squeezed in the channel, the vehicles would move synchronously with oscillation. Otherwise, such self-motion would become desynchronized with interval between the inequable vehicles decreased gradually. If their volumes were significantly different, and the smaller vehicles were not squeezed in the channel, the faster vehicle would overtake the slower ones, until they finally coalesced seamlessly. The assembled vehicle could deform itself along with change of its velocity. This finding may shed light on future researches on smart material, fluid mechanics and soft matter to self-fueled machine and biomimics. It would also offer opportunities for constructing self-reconfigurable soft robots.
Hand posture recognition (HPR) is quite a challenging task, due to both the difficulty in detecting and tracking hands with normal cameras and the limitations of traditional manually selected features. In this article, we propose a two-stage HPR system for Sign Language Recognition using a Kinect sensor. In the first stage, we propose an effective algorithm to implement hand detection and tracking. The algorithm incorporates both color and depth information, without specific requirements on uniform-colored or stable background. It can handle the situations in which hands are very close to other parts of the body or hands are not the nearest objects to the camera and allows for occlusion of hands caused by faces or other hands. In the second stage, we apply deep neural networks (DNNs) to automatically learn features from hand posture images that are insensitive to movement, scaling, and rotation. Experiments verify that the proposed system works quickly and accurately and achieves a recognition accuracy as high as 98.12%.
Water quality of water sources is a critical issue for human health in South China, which experiences rapid economic development and is the most densely populated region in China. In this study, the pollution of organohalogen compounds in nine important water sources, South China was investigated. Twenty six organohalogen compounds including seventeen polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and nine polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) were detected using gas chromatograph analysis. The concentrations of total PCBs ranged from 0.93 to 13.07 ng L-1, with an average value of 7.06 ng L-1. The total concentrations of nine PBDE congeners were found in range not detected (nd) to 7.87 ng L-1 with an average value of 2.59 ng L-1. Compositions of PCBs and PBDEs indicated the historical use of Aroclors 1248, 1254 and 1260, and commercial PBDEs may be the main source of organohalogen compounds in water sources in South China. The nine water sources could be classified into three clusters by self-organizing map neural network. Low halogenated PCBs and PBDEs showed similar distribution in the nine water sources. Cancer risks of PCBs and PBDEs via water consumption were all below 10(-6), indicating the water quality in the nine water sources, South China was safe for human drinking. (c) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
The stochastic consensus problem of linear multi-input multi-output (MIMO) multi-agent systems (MASs) with communication noises and Markovian switching topologies is studied in this technical note. The agent's full state is first estimated by the state observer, and then the estimated state is exchanged with neighbor agents through a noisy communication environment. The communication topology is randomly switching and the switching law is described by a continuous-time Markovian chain. Then a consensus protocol is proposed for this MAS, and some sufficient conditions are obtained for ensuring the mean square and almost sure consensus. In addition, if the communication topology is fixed, some necessary and sufficient conditions for the mean square consensus can be obtained according to whether or not each agent in the system has parents.
Functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is an emerging optical technique, which can assess brain activities associated with tasks. In this study, six participants were asked to perform three imageries of hand clenching associated with force and speed, respectively. Joint mutual information (JMI) criterion was used to extract the optimal features of hemodynamic responses. And extreme learning machine (ELM) was employed to be the classifier. ELM solved the major bottleneck of feedforward neural networks in learning speed, this classifier was easily implemented and less sensitive to specified parameters. The 2-class fNIRS-BCI system was firstly built with an average accuracy of 76.7%, when all force and speed tasks were categorized as one class, respectively. The multi-class systems based on different levels of force and speed attempted to be investigated, the accuracies were moderate. This study provided a novel paradigm for establishing fNIRS-BCI system, and provided a possibility to produce more degrees of freedom in BCI system.
This paper proposes a probably approximately correct (PAC) algorithm that directly utilizes online data efficiently to solve the optimal control problem of continuous deterministic systems without system parameters for the first time. The dependence on some specific approximation structures is crucial to limit the wide application of online reinforcement learning (RL) algorithms. We utilize the online data directly with the kd-tree technique to remove this limitation. Moreover, we design the algorithm in the PAC principle. Complete theoretical proofs are presented, and three examples are simulated to verify its good performance. It draws the conclusion that the proposed RL algorithm specifies the maximum running time to reach a near-optimal control policy with only online data.
On-line portfolio selection, a fundamental problem in computational finance, has attracted increasing interest from artificial intelligence and machine learning communities in recent years. Empirical evidence shows that stock's high and low prices are temporary and stock prices are likely to follow the mean reversion phenomenon. While existing mean reversion strategies are shown to achieve good empirical performance on many real datasets, they often make the single-period mean reversion assumption, which is not always satisfied, leading to poor performance in certain real datasets. To overcome this limitation, this article proposes a multiple-period mean reversion, or so-called "Moving Average Reversion" (MAR), and a new on-line portfolio selection strategy named "On-Line Moving Average Reversion" (OLMAR), which exploits MAR via efficient and scalable online machine learning techniques. From our empirical results on real markets, we found that OLMAR can overcome the drawbacks of existing mean reversion algorithms and achieve significantly better results, especially on the datasets where existing mean reversion algorithms failed. In addition to its superior empirical performance, OLMAR also runs extremely fast, further supporting its practical applicability to a wide range of applications. Finally, we have made all the datasets and source codes of this work publicly available at our, project website: http://OLPS.stevenhoi.org/. (C) 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Pedestrian detection is a crucial problem in human pose recovery and behavior analysis, especially in applications such as visual surveillance, robotics, and drive-assistance systems. Recently, most pedestrian detection approaches of machine learning and signal processing have achieved advanced performance in traditional natural images. However, there exists a limitation on the accuracy in pedestrian detection. The reason behind this is that supporting information for detecting pedestrian is limited. In fact, spectrum besides visible light can provide abundant discriminative information for pedestrian detection. Therefore, it is significative to exploit multi-spectral information for detection task. In this paper, a multi-spectral based pedestrian detection approach is proposed, which not only takes use of the information of red, green and blue (RGB) bands, but also incorporates the information of near-infrared spectrum into the detection process. Latent variable support vector machines (L-SVM) are employed to train the multi-spectral pedestrian detection model. Experiments are implemented on a new dataset containing 1826 multi-spectral image pairs. The experimental results illustrate that utilizing multi-spectral information achieves significant performance improvement in a pedestrian detection task compared with only using RGB information. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
In this paper, the global stability analysis of fractional-order Hopfield neural networks with time delay is investigated. A stability theorem for linear fractional-order systems with time delay is presented. And, a comparison theorem for a class of fractional-order systems with time delay is shown. The existence and uniqueness of the equilibrium point for fractional-order Hopfield neural networks with time delay are proved. Furthermore, the global asymptotic stability conditions of fractional-order neural networks with time delay are obtained. Finally, a numerical example is given to illustrate the effectiveness of the theoretical results. (C) 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
This paper focuses on the stabilization problem for a class of nonlinear strict-feedback systems with disturbances and time delay. By constructing some nonnegative functionals, a multiswitching-based adaptive backstepping neural state-feedback controller is designed. Compared with all the existing control methodologies for the uncertain time-delay systems, the outstanding merits of the proposed control scheme are presented as follows. First, the controller guarantees that all the signals in the closed-loop system remain globally bounded, meanwhile the system output achieves an accuracy that is given a priori according to the practical requirements. Second, in contrast to the classical adaptive backstepping neural control schemes, we analyze the convergence of the tracking error by using Barbalat's Lemma instead of Lyapunov stability theory. Third, the main technical novelty is to construct three new nth-order continuously differentiable functions which are used to design the actual controller, the virtual control variables and the adaptive laws. Two simulation examples are provided to illustrate the effectiveness and advantage of the proposed control scheme. (c) 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
